1/10
Don't believe high star ratings are real.
dayana42127 August 2023
Don't believe high star ratings are real. Oppenheimer movie was a major disappointment, was looking forward to seeing it because of the hype, I learned my lesson. This movie was a snooze fest, I saw many sleeping on their reclining chairs. To add to boredom most of the movie had constant "elevator music" in the background while people were talking, that made it hard to understand what they were saying, even with my perfect hearing. The movie kept jumping from scene to scene was very hard to follow and after a while one does not care, too much effort to follow when the headache kicks in. So many are saying the movie is too long, correction it's the same length as The Godfather, nobody says The Godfather was too long, the truth is that Oppenheimer movie bored us to death.
4 out of 6 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?4/10
Movie for Netflix not for Cinema, Disappointing
abdulqadirpk21 August 2023
Honestly I had high expectations as it's Christopher Nolans movie and I am a big fan and admirer of Christopher but what is this. This movie made me sleepy in Cinema and I didn't enjoy it at all. These kind of movies are for Netflix. Except one explosion scene there is nothing in this movie. Are we paying the ticket to see bunch of actors sitting in a room and questioning Dr. Oppenheimer. I don't know what people like in this movie. Actually the taste of people regarding movies has spolied. A stupid spider man movie takes 8.8 rating. Rather I will watch Memento Movie instead of Oppenheimer. Very Disappointed.
11 out of 15 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?10/10
Mindblowing - Nolan at his best
calummacleod-5131023 August 2023
There are many factors that make Oppenheimer the film it is. The script is flawless, the settings are beautifully crafted However, what makes Oppenheimer truly great is its cast.

With more cameos than a Muppet movie, it would be easy to get lost in the who's who of Hollywood while trying to keep track of where we are in the story. What Nolan does expertly is make each and every one of these characters integral to the story. With the likes of Casey Affleck, Gary Oldman, Jason Clarke and Florence Pugh adding to the main cast of Cillian Murphy, Robert Downey Jr, Matt Damon and Emily Blunt, a film of characters has been concocted that is off the charts with tension, drama and realism.

I left the cinema with the realisation of having watched something that was very real and this was brought to the screen by a cast of actors and a director on top form. The relief of finally banishing the memory of the messy and overly-confusing Tenet, it was grest to see Nolan working his magic once more.
1 out of 10 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?9/10
A Story not of Physics, but of Human Nature
millikenliam-3431723 August 2023
Oppenheimer is a stunning movie. Visually, it is a masterpiece, and Nolan's commitment to recreating complex visual phenomena without the use of CGI does nothing to hobble his efforts; indeed, it enhances the emotional impact. The choice to cut back and forth between timelines, which some have derided as overwrought, helped develop plot and characterization in a way that kept me on the edge of my seat -- despite already having read American Prometheus and watching what was predominantly three hours of conversation between men in suits. The true genius of this film is to introduce suspense and tension while the audience nevertheless remains constantly aware of the inevitable resolution. Nolan's attention to detail is strict, to the point of testimony in Oppenheimer's hearing being lifted verbatim from transcripts of the real event. Cinematic contrivances are few and far between, and serve only to tie together themes that would otherwise require the sort of exposition that is not amenable to film, even of this length. As a current student of mathematical physics, I only take issue with the minor role that certain physicists -- John von Neumann, Richard Feynman, and others -- played in the script as compared to American Prometheus, and with the limited examination of circumstances shaping Oppenheimer's early life. It pays to know the boy who became the man, and there's much in Oppenheimer's childhood revealed through Bird and Sherwin's mammoth biography that helps to humanize his inner strife, which certainly preceded the bomb but was intensified by it. Ultimately, Nolan's presentation of human conflict against the backdrop of potential annihilation is ambiguous, much like the ethical debate still waged over Hiroshima and Nagasaki, and much like the legacy and life of J. Robert Oppenheimer himself. This is to the film's credit. We, the audience, although seeing the world largely through Oppenheimer's eyes, can catch a glimpse of men like Teller and why they acted how they did. Oppenheimer is well worth its runtime. It is a slow-burn Roman candle that pays due homage to a troubled brilliancy of physics and the collective body of Nolan's ouvre.
1 out of 5 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?5/10
Loud, hectic and confusing
wqzchgnz15 August 2023
The film was, similar to TENET before, so overloaded with the soundtrack that one was permanently under tension, although 90% of the film consisted only of dialogues that didn't need any sound background. There was jumping back and forth between characters and temporal events without further explanation and a chronological order, so that one lost the connection at some point. The film couldn't decide which story to tell: the life story of Oppenheimer, the anti-communist movements in the U. S. government, or the development of the atomic bomb.

Nolan applies the familiar method of telling several stories in parallel at the same time. He and many of his fans think this is ingenious; I think it is unnecessarily confusing. In films where multiple stories at the same time make sense, like Inception, Interstellar, or Tenet, it's a legitimate means of storytelling because they are fictional stories. In films like Oppenheimer, however, it has no place because the story is in the past and consequently could and should be told chronologically.

This is another Nolan film where he celebrates himself as a genius. However, genius here is confused with overconfidence. Movies should be for the audience, not to celebrate one's ego.

It feels like going to a five-star chef who has created a few outstanding dishes in the past and now thinks he has to continue offering the same dishes with a different recipe, and they would still be outstanding. The zenith of genius has been passed and the chef lives off his reputation, which many still celebrate.
6 out of 11 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?7/10
A snooze and then lip read
clive-589-10470225 August 2023
Chopping back and forth eras during the story was annoying and completely unnecessary but what was most annoying was that the dialogue was overwhelmed by background 'music' so the ability to lip read was an advantage. I beg you to refrain from adding 'music/noise' when the excellent actors were speaking as it degrades the product. Undoubtedly the acting and actors were superb as, could have been, the story line. In my opinion the film could have been 140 minutes long. Again, I feel compelled to add that, at times, it was extremely difficult to hear the dialogue. Please consider the audience of all ages.
4 out of 8 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?7/10
Nolan needs to reign himself in a bit
rb-9940218 August 2023
I think this film was brilliantly acted, beautifully shot , the script was excellent based on an amazing story which has changed the world for ever. So what's the problem? The degree of non-chronological story telling made it difficult to follow and simultaneously enjoy the film. I understand the reasons for doing this,it's a complicated story but as viewer without the in depth knowledge of the subject it was a difficult watch. I will watch this again, and perhaps i'll enjoy it more having already absorbed some of it. But I did not leave the cinema thinking that was a great film and the final hour while informative it gave me a headache.
6 out of 8 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?8/10
Not Nolans best work.
scottleej20 August 2023
The majority of performances are great but there are few exceptional performances by Robert Downy JR and Emily blunt.

Although Cillian Murphy once again plays the role a brooding individual a role he has almost recently become typecast.

Cillian performs well throughout with a highlight during one scene of hard questioning you can see the desperation and despair almost erupt underneath his surface.

Matt Damon plays the role of a military man Although a fair performance you can not hide from the fact that you see Matt Damon on screen and do not feel the presence of the character he is playing.

The remaining cast members pull their weight with great performances.

Although the climax of this film feels slightly anticlimactic ironic given that it is a large explosion.

The delivery of the sequence left me feeling unsatisfied.

Given the constant reassurance of the atomic bombs destructional capability the sequence under delivers to the point that you do not fear the atomic bomb in this movie.

Given the footage many of us have seen of atomic bombs this movie doesn't match the real destruction and fear that its real world counterpart truly shows.

The one outstanding highlight in this movie is the soundtrack.

Ludwig Göransson really captured the sound of scientific wonder within the music and the fear and daunting sound of the consequences.
2 out of 6 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?8/10
The bomb, the fear, and the aftermath.
imxhill18 August 2023
I'd be lying if I said that I did process and understand all of the dialogues and situations all the time throughout the movie, or I cared 100% about everything happening in the last act of the movie.

But what a movie.

For a 180-minute odyssey that records a man's scientific & academic fascination, his personal life, and his contributions and drama surrounding his most important creation, it is definitely a LOT to take in. But it never feels too much or too little. The film has no interest in Oppenheimer's childhood days or his death. With the development of the bomb being the center of the story, the film spreads out to past and future, Oppenheimer and his affiliates, and his personal life and inner self relating to that.

The pacing is quick, there are insane amounts of dialogue and it never feels boring or loose. (For the first two acts and some of third act) The editing really shines in making this possible. This isn't an action film, and this does not have a single war combat scene while being a movie about WW2. But it feels so epic, cinematic, and large in scale. It feels (and is) an important story to be told and to witness.

The trinity test scene & the ending are probably the most memorable scenes in the whole movie. With the former building up tension so well and the way it pays off is excellent. I found myself almost gasping watching the scene. And not just that scene but multiple times throughout the movie! The movie actually deserves the word 'breathtaking' when taking about it. The ending is also nearly as breathtaking and perfectly constructed. What a way to end a film.

Not a perfect film, but a great one regardless. Wonder how I'll feel on rewatches regarding the third act.
1 out of 2 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?8/10
A CINEMATIC FINESSE IGNITES AN OUTSTANDING BIOPIC
devendralilke21 August 2023
Nolan's nonlinear oscillation of Oppenheimer's story soaks one's mind and soul in itself. It fuses and motions through multiple faucets of oppenheimer's life whilst ensuring our wisdom of science and politics on point. Along with one's capable cerebral ability is required to enhance it deeply. His compelling written story traverses into several themes and is ushered by Nolan's direction to a three-hour long work of mastery. The moment you begin to assimilate this master work, you anticipate a flamed-steamy atomic explosion performed practically will blow your nerves off. The repercussions of this mass destruction are perceived with the dazed mind that one hurdles in the echoes of cries and pain. The breathtaking cinematography & a reverberating background score is an achievement closest to the molecules and sightseeing to world of oppenheimer's biopic, it gushes on the screen like a realization of magnificence of cinema and science. The monochrome segment dilutes with conviction of a great craft and revolves to set an intriguing conclusion. The Impeccable Cillian Murphy brings the character to life and so does every other cast suits up to fit considerably well. The trinity test is a place to set up Oppenheimer's regretful invention. The aftermath of success of triumph puts Oppenheimer on a trail that tries to subdue him and here's comes a time when one must stand firm for oneself. Oppenheimer has been left to live in remorse and guilt of his own creation that horrifies him like a death, and so does he says, "Now I am become death, the destroyer of worlds."
0 out of 3 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?6/10
Quit a Boring & Overrated.
samuelwestwoodd27 August 2023
I kinda like this movie ehh... or (maybe not) btw it's not that interesting i thought would it be that movie disappoints me big time. Too much talk going on this one and the "showstopper" trinity test is Disappointed me as well wtf. That scene supposed to entertained us but it did nothing it lacks the wow factor. Overall in historical/biographical view of point this movie maybe hit hit but i think in my opinion who's a big Sci/Fi, Fantasy and Thriller genre fan this movie is too Boring and Overrated. That's the biggest reason i avoided myself to go to watch the biopics or any kind of historical movies in theatres.
2 out of 3 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?2/10
Boring!
cubuwu-2703624 August 2023
Slow and boring! The film meanders from scene to boring scene with no apparent clear direction.

So overrated it's untrue! Such missed.potential with a storyline like that.

Zero connection with the characters. I was expecting so much from such a talented cast but you can't expect miracles when it's such a drag....

Scene after scene of people talking and taking endless uninteresting dribble. Scene after scene of boring stuff scrawled on blackboards. And don't get me wrong, I love science, but this wasn't science it was just endless bull...

Judging from the reviews you're either gonna love this or hate it. My boyfriend and I both hated it!
13 out of 19 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?10/10
Now he become death...
Piotreusz21 August 2023
This film is a perfect biography of physicist J. R. Oppenheimer, inspired by a book titled "American Prometheus". It doesn't only show you a life of Oppie, a father of atomic bomb. It gives you a whole new perspective of mankind event that changed world forever, creating something revolutionary that will impact many lives after. Beautiful movie on many levels of cinematography. (Especially the soundtrack and montage). Truly inspiring true history, that was shown with perfect touch of bringing crucial characters and events to the film.

Thank god that this film isn't teaching you about WW2. The whole concept stays with creating disruptive bomb, by magnificent scientists, that must face the outcome of their work.

I am right after seeing movie in theater for the second time and i have to say that the pace is very rapid. To catch all names, and plot lines you need to re-watch the movie for sure. And for more enthusiast people (like me) I recommend you read the book "American Prometheus". It pretty well expands your knowledge on the topic of Oppenheimer. You can surely see some scenes inspired by the book itself, so I certainly recommend it. (By time of writing this review i've read 20% of book 220/1084, and i look forward to finish this book by the end of summer+- next month.)

I've watched movie at theaters twice. First in IMAX ( 2 weeks after premiere) and one in original digital version and the difference can be easily spotted (especially when watching in that order). You can see and hear the difference in format of movie, and location of speakers that in IMAX can be behind you so you feel like you are surrounded by sound.

I loved that film and I can't wait to watch this film again. It is very inspirational and makes you contemplate for many hours. I just know that soon this film will be considered as "classic". Every time you will watch it, you spot something new, that makes this story even more complete.

(PS first time I wanted to see Oppenheimer in cinema, i found out at place that IMAX projector was broken (with one week reservation), so instead i went to another cinema and watched Barbie. Ive seen Oppenheimer one week after that when IMAX projector was repaired/replaced. Unforgettable experience.
0 out of 10 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?8/10
You can't lift the stone without being ready for the snake that's revealed
frankde-jong17 August 2023
The release of "Oppenheimer" was preceded by a lot of publicity. Despite this the film was not on my list for a long time. After a few small movies ("Following" (1998), "Memento" (2000) and "Insomnia" (2002)) director Christopher Nolan got access to bigger budgets. Beginning with "Batman begins" (2005) his films became epic productions in the action and / or science fiction genre. In my opinion David Lean did a better job in the transition from small fllms to big budget productions than did Christopher Nolan. After the release however I red some very positive reviews and "Oppenheimer" still came on my watchlist.

The pre production of "Oppenheimer" began for the Ukrainian war. Fear for the atomic bomb seemed something of the past. Cuba 1962 was long ago. The son of Christopher Nolan did not think much of a nuclear threat and according to Nolan this was exactly why he began the project.

After february 2022 and a year of threatning with nuclear weapons the World looked very differently when the film was released.

"Oppenheimer" is (of course) about the development of his title character (played by Cillian murphy), but also about the development of the American society and politics in the years after the Second World War and the interaction between these two developments.

Oppenheimer starts as an ambitious scientist and ultimately becomes a troubled moralist. Because of the devastating effects the bombs on Hiroshima and Nagasaki had, this sounds logical, but it is a bit more complicated than that. Was the brilliant scientist Oppenheimer really unaware of these consequences?

The trues is that (scientific) pride and vanity played a big role.

The devopment of the bomb also started in a different political context than its delivery. In the beginning there was a real possibility that Nazi Germany was the first to posses an atomic bomb. For the Jewish Oppenheimer this was of course a nightmare. At the delivery there still was the argument that quickly ending the war with Japan would also save a lot of (American) lives that could soothe the conscience. Thereafter the start of the Cold War and the possibilty of an arms race really began to trouble Oppenheimer. He thought that as the inventer of the bomb he would still have political influence after its delivery. He was wrong. In a key scene the bombs are leaving Los Alamos after the final test. Oppenheimer offers to General Leslie Groves (Matt Damon), the highest military in the Manhattan project, to accompany him to Washington. Groves says (in a polite manner) that he is no longer needed.

Also the political climate in the USA changed quickly in these years. The Second World War became the Cold War. Enemies changed into friends. In for example "Labyrinth of lies" (2014, Giulio Ricciarelli) and "The people against Fritz Bauer" (2015, Lars Kraume) it is shown how the prosecution of Nazi criminals is slowed down because of the new communist enemy.

"Oppenheimer" showed that also friends changed into enemies.

In 1942 the relationship of Oppenheimer with some members of the communist party was no obstacle to make him leader of the Manhattan project to develop the bomb. With no additional information these relationships all of a sudden became a big problem in the Cold War era. After the Soviets had developed their own atomic bomb unsubstantiated accusations of leaking information by Oppenheimer were added.

The film tells its story in a series of flashbacks. The linking pin between these flashbacks is formed by two hearings.

The first hearing is a 1954 hearing intended to destroy the public image of Oppenheimer. It was organised behind the scenes by Lewis Strauss The second hearing is a 1958 hearing in the Senate about the nomination of Lewis Strauss as Secretary of Commerce in the Eisenhower administration. Among others things because of his role in the Oppenheimer hearing Strauss failed to get the confidence of the Senate.

In "Oppenheimer" Lewis Strauss is played brilliantly by Robert Downey Jr.. He is both a McCarthy like figure and a sort of Salieri.

McCarthy in representing the changing political climate in the USA.

Salieri (who was jealous about the genius of Mozart) in the way he craves for the respect of Oppenheimer and cannot forget the way the arrogance of Oppenheimer makes a fool out if him.

"Oppenheimer" is largely based on the biography "American Prometheus" (2005) by Martin W. Sherwin and Kai Bird. At the beginning of the film the comparison with Prometheus is repeated. The gift of Prometheus to humankind however was useful and he was punished by the Gods. The gift of Oppenheimer to humanity is of doubtful value and he is punished by humans, most of all by himself.

More to the point is a remark by Oppenheimer himself at the beginning of the movie: "You can't lift the stone without being ready for the snake that's revealed.". This remark seemed to be adressed to politicians, but by the end of the film it is obvious that Oppenheimer had better said it to himself.

At the beginning of this (long) review I said that I was not a big fan of Christopher Nolan before "Oppenheimer". In "Oppenheimer" he exchanged the computer added images for frequent close ups and made a film that was far more to my liking than his previous ones.
0 out of 1 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?9/10
An excellent film, but not for everyone
JEBaeza17 August 2023
A masterpiece for those who understand the historical context of the film. Even with its three-hour runtime, it has a quick pace introducing characters and themes, making it a little dense at times. The script and storytelling are brilliant and engaging. Nolan's ability to turn a biopic into a deeply emotional cinematic experience shows why he is one of the best. There were moments when my heart was pounding and I even had goosebumps. The cast is one of the most ambitious aspects of the project, even secondary characters were played by recognized actors. Everyone delivers excellent performances, and I can already see Robert Downey Jr. Winning an Oscar for supporting actor. Visual and sound effects are captivating and immersive, even more so when you know the film does not have a single CGI shot. On top of all, Ludwig Göransson's soundtrack shows why he can be at the same level as Zimmer if he didn't already convince you with Tenet. Overall, an extraordinary experience in which you can feel how passionate were the people involved in the making of the film. Every aspect of it shines and blends remarkably to result in an emotional journey and I am sure it will have a lot of rewatch value as is usual with Nolan.
1 out of 2 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?9/10
An ambitious and engrossing film
bobyule19 August 2023
This is a film not without its flaws. The time sequence of events frequently jumps around, and the action is sometimes hard to follow as a result. Like many modern films, there is a reliance on naturalistic, fast-paced dialogue to add tension and authenticity, but this is sometimes at the expense of clarity. The final section of the film, following the detonation of the atom bomb, lacks the urgency and tension of the preceding sections.

But having said all this, I was gripped throughout. Despite the fact that I knew the eventual outcome, the film made an excellent job of portraying the story from the characters point of view, peering into an uncertain and worrying future as the atom bomb project proceeded. Like any good film, I was hooked and eager to see what would happen next, despite the element of inevitability behind the story.

Cillian Murphy gave a superbly convincing performance in the central role, and must be nailed on for an Oscar. Well done to all concerned.
0 out of 1 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?5/10
Great craftsmanship but boring
marcel_flueeler16 August 2023
Great actors and acting, great visual and sound, great editing, great dialogues - but still I didn't like it. 3 hours is too long. It should have been shortened to 2 hours. The interrogation scenes were just too stretched out. And the subject of this interrogation was not even that interesting. I understand that Nolan didn't just want to make a movie how Oppenheimer built the bomb but wanted to add something else which allowed flashbacks. But at the end of the movie I was like "This is it?". I also didn't understand why sometimes scenes were in color and sometimes in black and white. I'm sure Nolan used this to tell us something but I must have totally missed it. There are a number of Nolan movies that should be watched twice or even three times to understand them better, such as TENET, Inception, Dunkirk. And if you watch these again, you will find parts that you have overlooked and you can enjoy the movie with a different perspective. But I have absolutely no desire to watch Oppenheimer again. It would simply be too boring.
4 out of 5 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?9/10
The Movie is great, but..
harryjdavies-3785326 August 2023
Of course this movie is a top 10. Potentially even a top 5. However, I'm likely not to come back to it too many times, as it still boils down to the fact its a 3 hr movie, with at least 30-45 minutes of post trinity, and at most 30 minutes of actual trinity.

Those bits are great, but the slow build up towards the test, just shows too much of Oppenheimer's life, in solid blocks, where potentially just smaller flashbacks could achieve the same effect, just reaching the Test faster, which could've just picked up the pace of the movie.

However, the stacked cast, the incredible camera work and script, all make for an outstanding movie that i will remember for a long time.

The ending is simply incredible. But it's so hard to describe, especially to someone who hasn't seen the movie

Go watch it. Its just over 2 hrs of politics, so takes quite a lot of concentration. The other 30-45 minutes is simply incredible, visually stunning, and very thought-provoking.
0 out of 3 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?Nolan Falls short. Again
persi9321 August 2023
After making an action movie where the action was more confusing than anything else, Nolan strikes again, now with too long, too artsy drama film.

The good?

The actors are all great. They perform perfectly well, as one would expect.

The story is worth telling, it's nice someone told it.

The bad: It's 3 hours long. It didn't need to be. At all. It has at least an hour of filler.

The explosion is not well done. How the can you make an atomic bomb explosion boring? It's unbelievable.

Nolan made artsy stuff with the audio and the video again, playing with unnecessary noises and images and stuff.

It's 3 hours long, it didn't need to be Oppenheimer's wife is a nice character that's a lot more interesting than a few others, and it should have had more screen time.

It's 3 hours long.

Conclusion: Good characters, good story, bad direction. Nolan made action boring with Tenet, and now it made boring the creation of the atomic bomb.
6 out of 9 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?8/10
Nice
saneyshoker21 August 2023
I'm afraid that I don't know if I will be it is not giving up on me but the scholarship is a bit different 5th and 4th and 9th November I will be free use good night and night for you all and you noob have to go to the airport for a trip or something like the uncanny on your way to work on your mom and your wife so you noob have to wait until we are in the same house with a failure to do so and we have a few more of the scholarship to get back into it with a couple more days and then the rest will let me dady it up and I can go back and help with my work so that was the reason why we did so go.
0 out of 4 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?7/10
Good. But not great.
Doc Tom16 August 2023
Oppenheimer, from Christopher Nolan, is a good movie. Why? Because despite its three-hours runtime, I never felt bored. The visuals are impressive, with much less Nolanesque mannerisms from the director of Tenet than I feared. The story is nothing less than thought-provoking. One time the film made me shiver: What if Oppenheimer and his fellow scientists would have accomplished their work three months faster? Would I even exist? And the perspective that Nolan takes is laudable: this is a film about America's inner conflicts and contradictions as much as it is about an American hero.

Is Oppenheimer also a great movie? No, I don't think so. The main reason is that Mister Nolan is not an "actor director", but one who is intrigued by the story he tells and by the way he tells it. This doesn't matter much for "story movies" such as Memento (which I adore) and Inception (which I enjoyed big time).

But it matters when he's telling us about a person -- a human being who is much more than the events which he has experienced during his lifetime. If Mister Nolan would be an "actor director", he had told Robert Downey to stop grimassing and to act instead: This is not a Marvel flick, dear Robert, an "actor director" would have kindly said. An "actor director" doesn't care for stars, but cares for actors. In Oppenheimer (the movie), the audience buzzed when Matt Damon entered the scene -- because he was Matt Damon the movie star, not the general he was supposed to portrait.

But probably of utmost importance, if Mister Nolan would be an "actor director", I might have learned to know Robert Oppenheimer and maybe would have even felt with him, and for him. I might have understood his perception of the world around him. The way Oppenheimer (the movie) presented the genius's math-based view instead reminded me of the populist way Ron Howard once used to portrait the economist John Nash in a "Beautiful Mind". Instead, I have to confess that I don't think that I understand and feel close to Mister Oppenheimer after the three hours I spent with him yesterday.

In essence, that's why Oppenheimer (the movie) is a good one, but not one that I will remember vividly.
2 out of 2 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?9/10
"Mind Blowing"
williamoerting24 August 2023
My bike ride home from the cinema was filled with intense shakes as I tried to process what I had just witnessed.

"Oppenheimer" isn't just your run-of-the-mill cinematic piece; it's an encompassing cinematic journey. This film delves into the captivating biography of Dr. Oppenheimer, the world-renowned physicist often referred to as the father of the atomic bomb.

The movie intricately follows the path of this remarkably brilliant physicist, who possessed an ardent drive to introduce quantum physics to the United States. This path ultimately led him to be saddled with the moniker "Destroyer of Worlds."

Nolan's skillful orchestration of sound and lighting in the film is profoundly astonishing. The combination of these elements works in harmony to craft an unforgettable experience for the audience.

And let's not forget the impeccable acting - truly remarkable.
1 out of 7 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?3/10
A well marketed snooze fest
kqjcxy28 August 2023
What are all these ratings 5+ ratings seeing that I missed?

It's a 3 HOUR movie about Oppie attempting to re-instate his security clearance, and Strauss' beef with Oppie for humiliating him. The only time my boredom was overshadowed was Jason Clarke's embarrassing and cringeworthy portrayal of Roger Robb. The part where Robb was badgering Oppie towards the end in a closed door, non-trial session was embarrassing, and totally unwarranted considering that during the course of the movie Oppenheimer was being nothing but forthcoming and honest.

How this movie keeps increasing it's rating is beyond me. How this can be Nolan's biggest movie is beyond me. Most of all, how this movie is deemed IMAX worthy is beyond me - ONE SCENE that was worthy of IMAX. 1 hour too many. A pretentious pontification at best.
3 out of 5 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?10/10
1. Fission 2. Fusion
rkohlr24 August 2023
Greatest filmmaker of his generation has done it again!

On the grandest of canvases, he has painted the story of a god among men. Where should I start? The first thing that catches the eyes or should I say the ears is the hauntingly beautiful sound design by Ludwig Göransson - loud, mesmerizing and complementing the cinematography all the way.

The casting for this film is absolutely insane. The whole cast from the fearce Emily Blunt to the cunning Robert Downey Jr., from the hopeless romantic Florence Pugh to the astute Casey Affleck, from the patriotic Matt Damon to the genius Cillian Murphy - all gave absolute mind-boggling performances.

Can You Hear The Music - Ludwig Göransson

Let's talk about Nolan now. The whole film is directed from the non-linear point of view of Oppenheimer; everything he feels and thinks is all there for everyone to consume through the masterful direction of Christopher Nolan. The way he captured the emotions of fear and guilt through the blue eyes of Oppenheimer - this kind of encapsulation and reading of raw human feelings from the face has been done to this level only by Ingmar Bergman.

Quantum Mechanics - Ludwig Göransson

The last hour of the film, after the testing of the bomb, the whole interrogation sequence is so intriguing and the best part of the entrie movie for me. Christopher Nolan has outdone himself and created a mammoth of a masterpiece that directly falls at the top spot in my Christopher Nolan Ranked list.

P. S: Robert Downey Jr. Or Gary Oldman for the Oscar. Thank god, his marvel days are over for now. No one would mind if Cillian Murphy wins the Oscar but Joaquin Phoenix will give him competition through Napoleon for sure.
0 out of 6 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?5/10
Too many long stretches with no stakes
ojford19 August 2023
The reason this movie is being hailed as a masterpiece is because 3-hour biopics are rarely successful at the box office - after years of superhero dominance, critics understandably want to promote something different.

Unfortunately the film itself is disappointing. There are too many long stretches spent in committee rooms discussing things, the significance of which is never explained. It's never clear why it matters if Oppenheimer's clearance is revoked. It's never clear how the Senate denying Strauss a cabinet position makes any difference. Nolan tries to make us care with loud dramatic music, but that's no substitute for a compelling narrative.

The forward story, chronicling Oppenheimer's rise from clumsy physics student to leader of the Manhattan Project and father of the atom bomb, is better. It's told as an extended movie trailer, in a series of vignettes which fits its portrayal of a brilliant polymath who thinks at the speed of light.

However, even this section doesn't quite give us a good understanding of the man. He's first presented as an absent-minded professor, who relies on theory over practice. Then, when he's asked to lead the Project, he's suddenly thinking about building a city in the desert, concerned about the living quarters for the scientists' families. We don't get a definite personality, just a brief overview of his achievements and personal relationships, told out of order.

It's not a bad film. It has some stunning sequences and many of the best actors working today. But compared to say Dr Strangelove, it's less effective in warning of the dangers of nuclear war. And compared to say A Beautiful Mind, it's shallower in presenting a brilliant scientist.
7 out of 8 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?10/10
Prometheus' Curse
berndgeiling26 August 2023
Nothing but a masterpiece here, Nolan's movie about Oppenheimer, father of the atomic bomb, is way more than just one of those stale biopics in Hollywood History. It's visually breathtaking, with great cinematography, editing and soundtrack, set design and a monumental cast of perfect performances by dozens of the best actresses and actors working flawlessly for this historical epic, which should find it's place in film history forever.

Cillian Murphy as Oppenheimer gives the top notch performance in his career, a tragic and emotionally touching character study. And finally a highly intelligent script here, razor sharp dialogues, political intrigues, and an artistic attitude, which, in the devastating final sequences, leaves no doubt about what nightmare is waiting for mankind, since a handful of scientists opened Pandora's Box with the atomic bomb.
1 out of 6 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?10/10
Give the whole cast a damn oscar
D-G-P19 August 2023
This whole movie is quite frankly a masterpiece. Christopher Nolan seems to have a knack for choosing the exact right cast , filming location and everything else for his movies. I don't think I have watched a movie in the last 5 or so years that didn't make me bored at one point or another , however I didn't even realize it had already been two hours of the movie. That's how good this will keep you on the edge of your seat. There is never a dull moment. I really hope they decide to release this on DVD so I can preserve this on my movie shelf for the rest of my life. Just do be aware that this movie is INCREDIBLY LOUD. Your ears will hurt a little after you leave , but it is worth it. If you read my other reviews you'll know I tend to be fairly critical of the stuff I watch but I literally can't find anything wrong with this movie.
2 out of 5 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?9/10
Genuine Christopher Nolan movie.
cocossen21 August 2023
Watching Oppenheimer, specifically in IMAX theatre was tremendous. Especially those sparkle effects, were actually the best for IMAX experience.

I'd also like to say, and I can't believe I'm about to say over Hans Zimmer, but in my opinion, choosing Ludwig Göransson for his recent two film, was best move Christopher Nolan made. Because personally, Hans Zimmer is closer to my type of movie soundtrack, but Göransson's Bass sound is something different.

His artwork can make the audience to travel directly into the movie, and that movie, which is Nolan's, probably won't need any sound to like his movie, can be more effective to them.

Also, rapid transition combined with that bass sound made me really lazy, at the same time it made me fully focused on Oppenheimer's perspective.

Process during consideration of nuclear fission bomb's mechanism, was well explained, although bit hard to understand if the audience doesn't have any simple information about the mechanism.

But like myself, simple peek of some information about atomic bombs and ww2 era physics, can be so helpful to understand.

Since this movie has made based on true story and the original book, American Prometheus, I can't really argue about the way story goes or episodes that comes out, but as a person who didn't read the book, I think slight more explanation on the person Oppenheimer, maybe with more scenes on his further age before Europe, would have helped to make the clearer justification of how and why Oppenheimer acted like that in every situation.

I doubt if this movie would be considered as best movie of Nolan's, but clearly it is the best movie of 2023 so far and I am going to watch few more times and definitely with IMAX 70mm at least once. I can't wait to watch how film version feels different than a digital one.

Definitely deserves Academy awards.

9 out of 10.
1 out of 9 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?7/10
I went in seeing a quote that people were silent after the film.
psychhelp27 August 2023
This is my first IMAX experience. Boy 'o' boy, I loved how sound just pours into the theatre. However, I didn't think the film was great. Even, I was silent after the film. It was because, I didn't like the film much and the end credits made me think about the money that I spent to experience the film. I could've got grocery with it. People near me were occasionally snoring or playing with each other. Seeing the **x scene on that big screen made some near me breath heavily. Positives about the film would be Nolan's ability to execute the story in a fairly non-boring way, the awesome sound (maybe it's an IMAX effect), and an opportunity to see Cillian's craft in an up close manner. I liked his character in Peaky Blinders and in this you're able to see that he has put more work into it, from TV Screen to Big Screen requires that commitment and he has done it. A pro like Robert's acting was also relevant, however this kind of acting is nothing new to him. Emily's role seemed to be an overrated one, I don't know why they did it, maybe to show her in a special light, I don't know. I would like to see Cillian in a western-rancher kind of film, just to see how it would turn out.
4 out of 4 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?10/10
History was made by the explosion.
amir_kari20 August 2023
I don't like Christopher Nolan's Dunkirk. I think he always makes Sci-fi type cinema. And he's great at it really. But when I heard about Oppenheimer I thought that Nolan can manage to make it great. Because life of the father of atomic weapon is a real sci-fi. And I was right! If you think that 3 hours long historical talking movie is boring, then go and watch the Oppenheimer. This movie has great cast, intense action, and interesting plot. I mean I know many people who hate history but they genuinely like this movie. I think it's great in times like ours movies about atomic weapons should be shown everywhere. As a historian I want to shake Nolan's hand. Since i'm sure he made people enjoy history. 10 out of 10.
1 out of 8 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?5/10
TL;DR: Big LOUD noises!!!!
hgjymjx22 August 2023
Oppenheimer might be a decent movie somewhere under all that noise but I put in earplugs (I came prepared: it's a Christopher Nolan movie) and often put my hands over my ears as well. Nevertheless, with the cranked-up volume in movie theaters these days, I had no problem following the dialog.

There's a terrible soundtrack of melodramatic music to make sure you know how you're supposed to feel, frequent random booming and rumbling to make your liver quiver, and screen-filling explosions that come out of nowhere and seem designed only to startle - sort of a science equivalent of jump scares.

Nolan seems so determined to force us to feel - literally viscerally - that THIS IS REALLY IMPORTANT STUFF!!!! That character development and to some extent the plot suffer. It's a convoluted timeline, though use of black and white for flashbacks helps. The postwar period quiets down somewhat: fewer rumblings and explosions, but the strident, manipulative music continues.

The real Oppenheimer was a far more interesting and complex person than the character in this movie, though Cillian Murphy is, as always, excellent. They do indulge some of the real Oppenheimer's reservations about the implications of atomic weapons. But they portray him as pretty much a hapless victim of postwar McCarthyism, while leaving out much of the real Oppenheimer's affiliations with the communist movement and his willingness to name names when he was under pressure.

I would have liked to have seen a more thoughtful movie. There is some character development for Oppenheimer, Robert Downey Jr does a very fine job as Lewis Strauss, and Rami Malek does well with a brief though substantial part.

Overall, disappointing given the hype. Maybe I would have liked it better if it weren't so loud, and so focused on making sure that we never forget that it's about the ATOMIC BOMB, which is a REALLY BIG DEAL.
5 out of 7 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?9/10
Goes with a bang and not a whimper
movie-reviews-uk20 August 2023
That Christopher Nolan really has delivered some astonishing films: "Dunkirk", "Tenet", "Interstellar" and so on. He really hasn't put out a dud yet despite pushing all sorts of boundaries and working with some mind-bending scripts. Maybe I'm just a sucker for this type of filmmaking but either way I had high hopes for "Oppenheimer" and I wasn't disappointed.

First things first though. This is a very long movie and I was concerned about the inevitable lulls in the action or if not that then whether my bladder could take it. Safe to say that neither of these things proved to be a problem. The pace doesn't slacken throughout and I didn't have a chance to think about anything else but the story the whole time. Which is quite remarkable given that this is, in a sense, a dry biopic of a scientist with a well-known ending.

The reason for this success is that the story isn't really about the war or the atomic bomb or even Communism in America. Instead it's the exploration of a troubled mind where the mind in question is both first-class and put to the Herculean task of marshalling the scientific forces of the country in a singular effort. The film absolutely communicates just how unlikely the Manhatten Project was to succeed given how it had to convert barely understood atomic theories into a practical, achievable and reliable weapon of mass destruction. The irony of course is that the Nazis weren't even really in the race and perhaps there was no need to invent such a fission weapon at all.

Anyway the flashback/flashforward editing of the story contrasts this huge physical and emotional effort with a post-war world where Oppenheimer has out-lived his usefulness and perhaps out-stayed his welcome. Unfortunately for him he has an arch-nemesis in Lewis Strauss who works to destory the scientist while purporting to be his friend. For all of his gifts Oppenheimer is out-classed on the political stage and very much out-manouveured. It's this dynamic between Robert Downey Jr and Cillian Murphy that really anchors the movie and makes up for the fact that everyone else is basically a bit-player.

So "Oppenheimer" deserves to be right up there with the best of Nolan's films and equally with the best other biopics such as "Amadeus", "Ghandi" and "Lawerence of Arabia". The curious thing is that the men in all of these films were flawed, difficult, abusive and unconstrained by what anyone else thought or cared. These characterics enabled them to scale the heights of human achievement but also laid the seeds of their downfall. I guess that there are nice people out there who've changed the world but who wants to see a movie about nice? No give us flawed geniuses who surprise and delight us with their tricks and triumphs before straying too close to the sun. That's drama.
1 out of 5 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?10/10
Ate it up without being spoon fed
madpryor19 August 2023
I genuinely appreciated that this movie built layer upon layer within itself. Excellent film with an excellent cast. I was engrossed the entire time, and it didn't feel like I was in the theater for three hours.

I was truly blown away by Cillian Murphy and Robert Downey Jr.'s performances. Their interplay was masterful and truly built the tension. Watching Emily Blunt was like watching a MasterClass in acting. I was so repulsed by her behavior as a mother and then so impressed by her strength under pressure in other areas.

I highly recommend this film and will probably rewatch it a few more times to truly take in the stellar writing, direction, and performances.
1 out of 6 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?9/10
Fission of Morality: Another Nolanian Voyage
svolyaee25 August 2023
"Oppenheimer," directed by the visionary Christopher Nolan, is an enthralling cinematic masterpiece that dives into the intricate arena of history, science, and human morality. With his signature blend of conspicuous mastery and boundless imagination, Nolan once again proves himself as a true maestro of the silver screen.

The film depicts the engrossing narrative of J. Robert Oppenheimer, portrayed with remarkable depth by Cillian Murphy. As the father of the atomic bomb, Oppenheimer's complex character is laid bare, with Nolan's lens capturing every nuance of his internal struggle. The director's affinity for multidimensional protagonists is evident as we witness Oppenheimer's tormented journey from the portals of scientific discovery to the moral abyss of weaponization.

Nolan's command over cinematic technique is nothing short of awe-inspiring. His utilization of non-linear storytelling, a hallmark of his directorial style, weaves a mind-blowing web that transcends time and space, much like the theories of physics that Oppenheimer himself grappled with. The juxtaposition of hauntingly beautiful visuals against the backdrop of morally weighty decisions creates an arresting sensory experience.

Furthermore, Nolan's collaboration with cinematographer Hoyte Van Hoytema paints each frame with a sublime blend of light and shadow, infusing the film with an almost palpable tension. The sweeping aerial shots and meticulously choreographed set pieces reveal Nolan's dedication to his craft, as well as his unyielding pursuit of authenticity.

The film's score, composed by Ludwig Göransson, serves as an evocative auditory companion to the narrative. With notes that reverberate through the very core of the audience, the music heightens the emotional resonance of pivotal scenes, eliciting an almost symbiotic relationship between sound and story.

"Oppenheimer" is not merely a historical biopic; it's an intellectual odyssey that challenges viewers to confront the ethical conundrums posed by scientific advancement. Nolan's deft handling of Oppenheimer's personal turmoil in the face of groundbreaking discovery forces us to grapple with the timeless question of responsibility versus progress. In this regard, the film harkens back to the profound contemplations of classic cinema while propelling the medium into new and uncharted territories.

"Oppenheimer" works as an exemplar of cinematic brilliance. Its fusion of cerebral storytelling, technical virtuosity, and thought-provoking themes solidifies its place in the pantheon of great films. Just as Oppenheimer's legacy continues to reverberate through the annals of history, Nolan's cinematic opus is destined to be internalized in the collective consciousness of film enthusiasts for generations to come.
2 out of 4 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?10/10
One of the greatest cinematic achievements of all time! Nolan's magnum opus.
cedricdumler17 August 2023
I've been trying to write something about this thing for a few weeks now. Ever since watching it for the first time, it completely stuck with me. Oppenheimer simply is a ridiculous achievement in filmmaking. An absurdly immersive and heart-pounding experience. Cillian Murphy is an insane force and RDJ will be a front-runner for Best Supporting Actor. Every 10 minutes a new A list Hollywood star comes on screen and gives their lifetime performance - this is what it means to all of them being part of this masterpiece.

Ludwig Göransson put his entire nutsack into that score, coupled with a sound design that made me feel like I took a bomb to the chest.

Hoyte van Hoytema is just out of this world. How he shapes Oppenheimer's visions of quantum mechanics, with particles and molecular structures, it's a jolt to the senses. Never before did a film capture wonder and mystery of creation so real and only steps away from reality's grasp while gifting a new way of seeing the world. HVH already was my favorite DOP, this just cemented it.

Christopher Nolan ist the best fricking director of all time, and he demonstrates that over and over again. With Oppenheimer he reached a new mountainous peak as an artist. Directing, writing and pacing wise - this might really be Nolan's magnum opus and pinnacle achievement so far. You can literally feel how every movie he's done so far, leads together into this one. The cosmic weight, the moral implications, the existential horror - it all carries a maturity and ambiguity not paralleled in his previous work.

Oppenheimer must be seen to be believed, it is an experience that bombards the senses and fuels the love for the art of filmmaking.
2 out of 6 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?10/10
Intense and dramatic
ainonewmoon25 August 2023
Every second of this masterpiece is a thrilling experience. It is intense and dramatic in the best way possible. Here you must actually concentrate on every scene, on every action and word to fully grasp the storyline and the complexities of it. The way the story is told is fast paced but intertwined with slow moments that keep it interesting. The cinemaphotography is brilliant, a thousand words in one scene, utilizing bright colors that contrast with the black and white moments.

The acting is amazing, with heart wrenching moments and mental dilemmas depicted on the screen with a talented cast. Especially Cillian Murphy and RDJ carry this story beautifully, but no other cast members lack either, with each bringing their best here and creating something stunning.

The story strikes a chord with not only the Americans, but also with many others. It takes the World War 2 and shows us a dark but ultimately inevitable dilemma that was born during that time. With thrilling story telling and an amazing cast, even those who did not witness this time can catch a glimpse of the past that many lived through.

I must also compliment the sound design, though I must warn that it can get quite intense and loud at times. This subject was brought to life not only by the brilliant scenes but by the sound effects and score that enhanced the intense feel of the story. With the fast pace, this score felt like it took you along for a ride. It worked perfectly with the movie.

All in all, I give this all the stars possible and highly recommend it. I would however point out that this is a very long movie and requires your full attention for all of its duration. The intensity and fast pace can be overwhelming to some and undoubtedly there are things that most will miss. A second viewing seems like a good idea, to gather all the pieces and it will not make the movie any less amazing, rather, it will enhance it.
1 out of 6 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?10/10
Perfect in every way
mortathaclash-6801027 August 2023
Acting10/10 , story writing 10/10 , soundtrack 1000/10 , cinematography 10/10 This was the first time I enjoyed a biography film this much it was an overwhelming experience and tbh I never wanted the movie to end The soundtrack is so complexed and takes you to another world with mixed emotions and feelings A movie that makes you wonder was Oppenheimer a good citizen or just the devil in sheep's clothing.

You will leave the film questioning yourself what is our end and what are our motivations to survive It shows the real dark side of war and power and the true darl colours of America and shows the world how horrible war is An oscar winning movie for sure.
0 out of 2 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?9/10
Deserves the hype!
blodnatt23 August 2023
I took a spontaneous decision and went to watch this before the internet spoiled it completely, and I was, pardon the pun, blown away.

Many people complain that there's too little explosion, and too much Oppenheimer, and to that I say, look at the name of the movie.

Christopher Nolan created not only a masterful biopic with all the ups and downs they went through, but also skillfully executed how hard it was for the scientists to live with the fact, that they were making a weapon of mass destruction that would kill hundreds of thousands of innocent people, but also depicted the necessity of how they had to do it, before the enemy did it.

At several times I held my breath because of how intense the movie was, and that was a very good experience as a movie goer.

The switch between black and white (documented events) and color (undocumented events) played out very very well.

Do yourself a favor, and go watch this absolute masterpiece.
0 out of 2 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?8/10
Nolan has created his own atomic bomb and that means it will be remembered as an extraordinary epic.
saolivaresm22 August 2023
If there could be a director in Hollywood today capable of creating an epic as great as what Oppenheimer means, that is without a doubt Christopher Nolan. A director as extraordinary as he is determined in what he does, it is not surprising that he has achieved such greatness with one of the best films of 2023 and surely the best film of his filmography.

A biopic that is intelligently built by a sharp, thoughtful, captivating and highly tense script as we enter the heart of a film that is rightly considered the best political game written in recent times. Nolan hides behind a forceful thriller a film that plays deceit as a virtuoso politician who tries to position his name above all around him. Behind the creation of the atomic bomb is a bold story that knows how to set the pace and the times before two great characters who play to position his name as the great hero of the show.

For this, the director has the best Cillian Murphy of his career, who delivers what for me is the demonstration of an actor who has touched the Olympus and who is definitively established as the extraordinary actor that he is. Julius Robert Oppenheimer's performance is forceful, sincere, authentic and indelible, positioning the actor as the great candidate to receive all possible recognition in awards season. Not only does he deserve it, Robert Downey Jr. Leaves as a precedent that he is a tremendous actor and that he can do everything in the cinema and you will not be able to question it; as well as a cast that no matter how small his presence is, no one is out of place like a Florence Pugh who, frankly, is amazing and that we only enjoyed a small part of this epic.

Ludwig Göransson has simply created the perfect chords to accompany Nolan's mind with a soundtrack that does not disappoint at all and in which you allow yourself to feel the emotions with which he bathes each possible scene. The same can be said of Hoyte van Hoytema with his dreamlike photography and the size of the challenge he must deal with from color to black and white.

What Nolan has achieved is to recall the ancient epics of yesteryear that can be summed up in a film made by adults for adults, but made with all the breadth and majesty of those films made for children and adolescents. A film so thought out and dedicated with which the director demonstrates all his experience to what he is really passionate about, which is cinema.

Oppenheimer is an imperfect film that has its moments where you might like it less and some decisions that don't finish completely. That alone means that we are in the presence of an extraordinary film that is positioned to date as that auteur film supposed to be a great blockbuster, but that never releases the personal blood of its own author.
1 out of 6 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?10/10
I tend to agree with all of the people saying that . . .
pixrox123 August 2023
. . . OPPENHEIMER is a virtual remake of the 1900's classic picture, AMADEUS. Both films are about somewhat obscure title characters whose mastery of numeric sciences are hampered by flagrant dalliances with wanton women. Each of these protagonists have notable face-to-face disagreements with their nation's heads of state. Both of them are bedeviled by nefarious mortal enemies invented to advance their movie's plots. In fact, the Salty dude from the earlier film is played by a seeming twin to Murray Abraham in the current exploration of masculine famous envy. AMADEUS and OPPENHEIMER both run about three hours, and each tale traces the decline of the titular leads, depicting their declining mental health, decaying physical constitutions and increasingly frequent hallucinations. AMADEUS won eight gelded statuettes, including the 1984 Best Picture prize. Can OPPENHEIMER top that? Stay tuned.
1 out of 9 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?10/10
What you'd expect from Nolan, delivered in a captivating style
wellthatswhatithinkanyway20 August 2023
STAR RATING: ***** Brilliant **** Very Good *** Okay ** Poor * Awful

J. Robert Oppenheimer (Cillian Murphy) is an awkward, studious trainee professor at Cambridge University, driven to put an unsuccessful attempt on the life of a hard-pressing lecturer within the walls of the educational establishment. Visiting professor Niels Bohr (Kenneth Branagh) admires Oppenheimer's non-conformist style, and invites him to study under his tutelage. On the verge of World War 2, with the aid of the hard edged Major Leslie Groves (Matt Damon), he attempts to split the atom, and design a nuclear device based on implosion rather than explosion, that sets him on course to create the device that will define him. Years later, a courtroom procession plays out, where the head of Oppenheimer's learning establishment, Lewis Strauss (Robert Downey Jr.) must defend his reputation, while Oppenheimer's suspected communist past comes back to haunt him.

By now, it can be safely said that Christopher Nolan has become a household name, with an established filmmaking style. He has become known for all out, lengthy sagas, that leave no stone unturned, and have an art house, eccentric touch to them that singles them out. I've found them largely hit and miss, but at least it can be said that I knew what to expect, and have little excuse to be put off from what has become a signature trademark. And as such, Oppenheimer was a highly pleasing experience, an in-depth examination of the mind and soul of one of history's most controversial figures.

Despite the sprawling length, it's essentially just a life story interspersed with a courtroom drama, with both segments playing out together smoothly and absorbingly. Cillian Murphy is the central player of an all-star cast (including Gary Oldman in a cameo at the end as President Eisenhower), in a film determined to examine the character at the heart of its core, and so it has a beneficial lead star in Murphy, who portrays a quiet, detached individual, with a lot of deeply entrenched internal struggles, but with a focused, determined mindset to his work. A very haunting scene plays out in the third act, where he has to give a speech, and imagines not naked people, but the scarred, charred remains of those who've felt the power of his experiment.

Nolan is a cinematic artiste with a by now very familiar style, and in this true life, historical project of his, it all comes off wonderfully (even with some gratuitous nudity!) and results in a thoroughly absorbing experience. *****
1 out of 5 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?3/10
Consider yourself warned
jkbovill21 August 2023
Consider yourself warned Very boring and waaaay too long. I didn't care about any of the characters or the petty hostilities between them.

No need for IMAX--or the big screen for that matter--because there were no compelling visuals.

Nolan's non-linear storytelling was confusing and unnecessary.

Overly dramatic, very loud score during ceaseless committees about security clearance and communism.

Didn't really see the point of the out of place nudity or sex scenes.

Matt Damon's character was the lone bright spot.

I was totally underwhelmed and can't understand the buzz.

Surprisingly BORING.
14 out of 17 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?10/10
Christopher Nolan is a GENIUS
ondabanks25 August 2023
Christopher Nolan, known for his groundbreaking films, has once again outdone himself with "Oppenheimer." This cinematic masterpiece transcends both time and genre, offering audiences an immersive and thought-provoking experience that only Nolan's directorial prowess could achieve.

"Oppenheimer" is not just a biographical drama; it's a journey through history, science, and the intricate workings of the human mind. Nolan's trademark narrative complexity is on full display here, intertwining the life of J. Robert Oppenheimer, with the ethical dilemmas of the Manhattan Project.

Visually captivating from start to finish, "Oppenheimer" is a symphony of meticulous craftsmanship. Nolan's signature use of practical effects and masterful manipulation of time add layers of intrigue to the film. The portrayal of Oppenheimer's world, from the dimly lit laboratories to the vast landscapes that witnessed scientific and ethical upheaval, is a testament to Nolan's meticulous attention to detail.

Hans Zimmer's evocative score complements Nolan's storytelling with an emotive resonance that tugs at the heartstrings. The music becomes a character in its own right, enhancing every scene and driving the emotional weight of the narrative.

The ensemble cast, carefully curated by Nolan, delivers performances that are nothing short of extraordinary. Murphy immerses us in Oppenheimer's complex psyche, capturing the essence of a brilliant mind grappling with the implications of his work. The supporting cast, including RDJ, enhances the narrative's authenticity, each actor bringing depth and nuance to their roles.

Nolan's directorial vision shines brightest in his exploration of the moral labyrinth that the Manhattan Project represented. The film's ethical dilemmas resonate powerfully with today's world, inviting viewers to ponder the responsibilities of scientists and the ethical ramifications of their creations. Nolan skillfully navigates this moral terrain, leaving audiences introspective and engaged.

"Oppenheimer" isn't just a movie; it's an experience that lingers long after the credits roll. Nolan's ability to seamlessly blend historical accuracy with artistic interpretation is a testament to his storytelling prowess. As with his previous works, he raises the bar for cinematic excellence and invites audiences to engage with complex themes.

In conclusion, "Oppenheimer" is a tour de force that solidifies Christopher Nolan's legacy as a visionary filmmaker. This film is not only a tribute to the past but also a mirror reflecting the ethical challenges of our time. A must-see for cinephiles, history enthusiasts, and anyone who seeks a film that challenges their intellect and emotions alike. Nolan has once again redefined what cinema can achieve.
1 out of 6 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?6/10
Good...but should have been great.
WatershipBrakey28 August 2023
A muddled first 45 mins which provides a feeling that in the hands of another director, this could have been an all-time classic. Several years were covered but the viewer had no idea how many years and which year was which.

The middle hour was excellent. It was paced right and insightful, this is another reason why the film suffers under the rush of the first 45.

The last hour was Ok. The conspiracy/twist/betrayal wasn't brilliantly handled but it was Ok.

All in all, I felt this was a missed opportunity. Murphy played the role a bit too underwhelmingly to the point where when they were talking about Oppenheimer being a womaniser, an egotist etc. I didn't feel like we'd been showed that character at all to that point.

I wish I could score it higher. I wish it was better.
5 out of 5 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?10/10
One of the best movie of 2000's
FraGorgo25 August 2023
Monstrous film, apotheosis of cinema, triumph of audiovisual, three hours flown as if they were 90 min. You can not help but be kidnapped by sensational dialogues, by the colossal acting performances, by the impeccable direction of Nolan, who in my opinion signs his best film.

Scrupulous from the historical point of view and the representation of the characters, it is commendable the representation of the moral disagreement of the protagonist and those around him, emphasizing a dramatic side that in previous films by Nolan often lacked.

Definitely his most accessible film, despite the non-linear plot. However, it requires a certain threshold of attention to be fully appreciated. I hope the success of this film marks a watershed in the career of Nolan and his screenplays.

Every word about the cast would be superfluous, for me we are at the levels of "Pulp Fiction" or "The Godfather". I have no doubt that will hoard nominations, to Cillian Murphy must already be delivered all the existing awards, is simply born to play this character.

Applause to RDJ and Emily Blunt, able to support the colossal performance of the protagonist. I hope for Robert that this is an opportunity for an actor of his talent to get closer to a certain type of cinema. Honorable Mention for Matt Damon, one of my favorite actors.

The film is made in an impeccable way in its entirety, some sequences will remain impressed in my mind for a long time: for example that of Test Trinity, where the masterful construction of tension made me feel as if it hadn't happened for years.

My favorite scene, which convinced me definitively of the caliber of this masterpiece, is that of the speech after the drop of the bomb. Seemingly quiet, this sequence turns into something distressing and almost horror.

In conclusion, as far as I'm concerned, in the top 5 films released since 2000, definitely the best feature film made by a filmmaker since Parasite. As already mentioned, Nolan's best film, even if it is perhaps the least "Nolan" of his filmography.
1 out of 9 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?10/10
The best movie
kelvincransenhed15 August 2023
When me and my friends decided to go watch oppenhimer, I was a little sceptical to if I wanted to watch it, but after we saw the movie i was dupprised to how good it was. And now i have a new favorite movie. When me and my friends decided to go watch oppenhimer, I was a little sceptical to if I wanted to watch it, but after we saw the movie i was dupprised to how good it was. And now i have a new favorite movie. When me and my friends decided to go watch oppenhimer, I was a little sceptical to if I wanted to watch it, but after we saw the movie i was dupprised to how good it was. And now i have a new favorite movie.
1 out of 4 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?10/10
It's a true masterpiece
Johnjoethecat16 August 2023
Although a good film Dunkirk had nothing really memorable to return too and Tenet although a cool concept was kind of lifeless so I was a bit sceptical about Oppenheimer. But Christopher Nolan is back with a new masterpiece! This might be my second best Nolan movie behind the dark knight. It's a really long film but it never becomes tiresome or boring on the contrary there is always a high tension and a science of urgency. The directing,pacing, cinematography and acting are all top notch. I movie that must be seen in the biggest screen you can find and preferably In an IMAX cinema if possible.
0 out of 5 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?9/10
It's not what I expected but is a great movie anyways
veksdave18 August 2023
Nolan makes another excellent movie as expected and the quality is still outstanding, but this time is different, it's a biopic about a real person and some controversial themes and it somehow manages to keep the plot intriguing and building up conflicts that make interesting to know what's happening to the characters, it's very dynamic how a lot of characters are being presented in the movie by separate moments that connect through the storyline and how are represented the different personalities, it gives all the depth to Oppenheimer to see his development as a physician, politic and as a person with feelings but also gives the other characters the importance and exploration so they don't feel like just backgrounds characters and the cast fits great, the legal conflict is a part of the story that gives a bigger retrospective to the events and just a personal complaint it was longer than expected but it's supported by the surprising evolution of Lewis Strauss as an antagonist and the emotional side that is mainly revealed by Kitty Oppenheimer's character.
1 out of 2 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?10/10
A Perfect Blending of History & Humanity
zanedbell21 August 2023
Oppenheimer was, without a doubt, one of the best movies I've ever seen. I saw it (along with Barbie) on the Thursday of its release, and it took me a couple of days to really understand the extent to which the film affected me.

That's not to say that I left the theater crying, as so many reviewers have claimed to do, but it did leave me somewhat shocked and absolutely awestruck. So very few films are able to convey the reality that historical figures are real, flawed figures while also displaying the gravitas that history is traditionally assigned. Christopher Nolan and crew, somehow, manage to masterfully display both of these facets of the past. All at once, history is both deeply personal and exceedingly grand, but the extent to which the film conveys this isn't entirely clear until its end.

That is to say that, if you're not particularly interested in history or politics, this is not the film for you. I've had a hard time imagining that I would like this three-hour movie if it weren't for my experience with history or interest in nuclear policy. Oppenheimer certainly takes its time to explore the life and world of its namesake, but if you're interested in the man (or The Bomb), I promise you that not once will it feel slow or bogged down with poor pacing. Every scene, action, and piece of dialogue has a purpose in a way that few other pieces of media do. If you are at all interested in history, go see this film NOW, and make sure you see it IN THEATERS.

This is a film that will be remembered for decades much in the same way that Dr. Strangelove has been, and dare I say, it will exceed that film. Oppenheimer is an artistic work that serves as both poetic tribute to the past and prophetic reflection on the human condition. Never before have I seen a film so thematically cohesive. Words alone cannot fully describe its artistic merit.
2 out of 11 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?3/10
Boring long movie with no action Do not believe the10 star reviews.
michael084526 August 2023
Boring long movie with no action. Actors whisper for no reason. Lots un-interesting controversy among the scientists. If you do not know the story of how the war against Japan in WW2 was won then it may be interesting. Although, I have seen better and more gripping documentaries re-enacting this subject. They do not show the problems of their project. And the final act does not include the one thing that the thousands of people in WW2 were working to do. I think Nolan is living on his past reputation from his Batman movies. At three hours it is tedious for teenagers or anyone who likes action movies to watch.

Whoever is making fake 9 and 10 star reviews should be ashamed of themselves.
7 out of 16 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?10/10
Exceptional
ragibanthro15 August 2023
I recently had the pleasure of watching Oppenheimer in theaters and I must say, it was an absolute masterpiece. The soundtracks were brilliant and really added to the overall experience of the film. The cinematography was top-notch and visually stunning, making every scene a feast for the eyes. The script was well-done, keeping me engaged from start to finish. The standout performances by Jason Clarke, Gary Oldman, Rami Malek, and Robert Downey Jr. Were exceptional and truly brought their characters to life. I also have to give special credit to Cillian Murphy for his remarkable performance. This was my first film that I've watched in theaters and it was truly a captivating and well-executed movie that I highly recommend to anyone looking for a great cinematic experience. I give Oppenheimer my highest recommendation and hats off to Matt Damon, Josh Hartnett, Emily Blunt, and Florence Pugh for their amazing performances.

Another masterpiece by Christopher Nolan.
1 out of 6 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?4/10
Tedious
Erictoolander24 August 2023
I had a lot of expectations going in to the theater. Perhaps I would learn something about quantum physics. Or I would get to watch and understand the internal struggles of the scientist who created the first weapon of mass desctruction. I didn't get either.

Instead, I got a 3 hour long and tedious spy thriller without any action whatsoever. Just a bunch of people greeting each other. There are so many characters and big name actors, they all want screen time, so they end up just proclaiming their name, history and motivations to each other, by speaking and not by acting.

So you just sit there and listen going "Okay, this is person number 34 who's appeared 3 times already" (we're even being shown flashbacks of the times the two characters who are on screen have already met so we can keep track, adding to confusion). The female characters that appear in the movie are one dimensional. They appear as one or more of the following: drunk, horny, angry or delusional. It's just terrible writing, really. Matt Damon was wonderful as always, that's really the only good thing I have to say about this film.

I can see what Nolan was trying to do but he should have done one of the following: Either give us a low-paced spy thriller like Tinker Tailor or Bridge of Spies, with mystery and suspense. Or give us a movie about a scienctist, like A beautiful mind or The Imitation Game.

I think he tried to do a bit of both but for some reason, maybe because the science was considered too boring for the general public, we got neither.
11 out of 16 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?7/10
Looks fantastic but could be better
madeddlive16 August 2023
The movie looks phenomenal. The actors did their jobs flawlessly.

I can understand a rating of 9 or 10 completely, but for me personally, a lot of moments seemed dragged out. This should not have been a 3 hour movie (2.5 hours max). There are so many moments in which nothing important is happening (and you could say "Well yes but those are important to build the character" and sure, there's a lot of those, but that's not the ones I am talking about. Some scenes are just simply there to fill up some more space. Also, the constant time jumps between so many time periods simply annoyed me, and was very confusing at first (until I understood what was happening).
2 out of 2 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?9/10
It's Not About the Bomb!
madserd16 August 2023
A story which is all about the bomb somehow manages to stay away from the obvious and focus it's attention on the life of Oppenheimer and more importantly how detractors try to break down his life and him. It's amazing to see the hero the father of the bomb when needed is used by the government apparatus and then humiliated and cast aside when not needed.

Beautifully written, amazing acting from a cast that seems like all of Hollywood wanted a piece of this action! The movie is simply brilliant in every way.

Yes the story revolves around the making of the bomb but the narrative is not about the bomb!
1 out of 5 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?9/10
Amazingly suspenseful
parkercsimon19 August 2023
Oppenheimer's passion for physics and science shines through in this film. For such a niche topic, it is remarkable how the story remains interesting and carries the suspense that is found in some of these scenes. For that alone it's definitely worth the watch. If that's not enough, there are great performances across the board from a wide array of familiar faces. Personally however, the dynamic between Cillian Murphy and RDJ was the highlight. Like most Nolan films however, the pacing holds the movie back in some parts, and not every buildup leads to a satisfying conclusion.

I'm giving the movie a 9, but it leans more towards the 8 than the 10.
0 out of 1 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?8/10
This is Nolan's Opus Maximus
russianskeptix22 August 2023
This move was brilliant and thrilling, even though (hopefully) the viewer knows what happens in real life, the build up and the thrills of it are amazing and visceral. The tension high octane to the max and never ending always going and moving fast.

The pros of this movie are a lot so I'm going to put top 3 or 5 on here, starting with;

1: The music was great and as with all Nolan movies was it's own part separate from the movie. It felt like it was (yes helping the story out) but was also it's on story as well.

2: The actor for Einstein did amazing hence saying that the acting was brilliant if anyone deserves an Oscar it would definitely be (sorry Florence Pugh) but Robert Downey Jr, Cillian Murphy, Olivia Wild, and Josh Peck.

3: The pacing was nice and the scenes did not feel unneeded but put in their particular place for the specific reason they were.

Cons:

1: The ending felt a little rushed.

2: I wanted to see Gary Oldman in the movie a tad bit more than just 5 mins towards the end of the film.

Otherwise an amazing movie and a great addition to the Nolan Universe.
1 out of 4 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?7/10
Oppenheimer honest review
Jojo-Xingyi20 August 2023
Oppenheimer is a overall mediocre film. It depends too much on sound effects, and loud, sudden flashes as seen in the beginning, the only thing that makes the film engaging to the audience. There is a lot of unnecessary content, and is hard to understand even for Christopher Nolan standards. The fact that there isn't a lot of suspense is understandable as we all know that the Atom bombs would be dropped in the end, so suspense is attempted through chopping up the timeline and scattering it throughout the movie. It would've been better for the film if the bombs were shown dropped in the beginning and have the story told in a reversed manner.
8 out of 8 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?10/10
Beautiful retelling of history
ilikelickingeyeballs17 August 2023
I don't normally give 10/10 stars but Openheimer really deserves it. One of the best movies I have seen, and will definitely see again. At first going into it, I'll admit, I was a bit sceptical about a 3 hour movie, but I didn't get bored one bit! A lot of people talk about "boring and long" moments that can be used as a snack break... I don't even know which parts of the movie they mean as i was captivated with every minute of it and would not dream of walking out for even a minute. I loved how this story, this history, was told. I also have to mention that the sound effects hit you like a truck! Of course I have to mention the exceptional performance of each actor that brought those historical figures and events to life again. Extremely recomend.
1 out of 3 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?8/10
Ya, what they wrote.
mailaura324 August 2023
I feel like my review is just going to mimic everyone elses... it was good..but. I have to start by saying that I had no desire to watch this film, it's just not my cup of tea. However my 81 father, who is battling cancer, wanted so bad to see it. My husband was going to to but plans fell through, and I ended up taking him. The only knowledge I had of Oppenheimer was from the couple of times his name was brought up on The Big Bang Theory, other than that.. nothing. So I'm just going to spit it out.. I was confused, I didn't really understand what was going on. I thought the sound, the acting, the visuals were brilliant, but until the part in the movie where the bomb is tested and then everything afterwards, I was just lost. Ok here's the good part and why I gave the movie 8 stars and maybe I might change it to a 10 someday.. I believe that I will thoroughly love this movie the second time I watch it, and that's because it will all make sense. The last 30 minutes explained the first 2 hours, so next time I watch it, the first 2 hours will make sense. I truly hope RDJ finally gets his Oscar for this movie, but honestly it could go to anyone in this cast, even the small role from Rami Malek was Oscar worthy. I'm going to go again with hubby, so hopefully I'll enjoy it a bit more than last time.
0 out of 3 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?7/10
Pretty good
martinrobertson30048219 August 2023
Christopher Nolans latest is a welcome break from the over the top sci-fi hes been doing. A historical drama that's more relevant these days than ever.

Its all about the creation and use of the atom bomb in the 40's. It is a very chatty movie. But has a great central performance from Cillian Murphy, leading a jam packed cast. The film is simply an interesting, important true story which is done well. Right down to even the younger and then older looks of Murphy being spot on.

The pace slows right down in the last half hour or so but its all building up to a smart ending. The only thing i really didn't get was why the film was switching from colour to black and white at random times. But i'm sure there was an arty reason for this.
1 out of 1 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?7/10
A big story, well told, but hard work.
efd-1046722 August 2023
Oppenheimer is not a film to be taken lightly, a serious topic played out in a humourless 3 hour grind.

The story is secondary to the big philosophical questions it drops on you, was Oppenheimer a demon or a saviour, it's hard to tell.

Cillian Murphy was excellent, but like the plot he delivered it in a sad jumbled timeline, through flashbacks and memories, he seemed exhausted.

Some really annoying special effects done to mimic or highlight fission made their point a little too often. Overall about 30 minutes too long, post the big bang it was just sad & reflective.

So a big movie, well made, but not a fun outing, not all films should be but this one left me feeling a little hollow (and tired).
1 out of 2 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?8/10
Challenging watch for most to be sure, but worthwhile
peteraziz-6225627 August 2023
One of the most anticipated films of 2023, and it was met with Barbieheimer the phenomenon.

Where fans went to watch both films back-to-back, something not done or seen in films in some time.

It's a long film.. anyone whose seen it or wants to knows.. CNolan always delivers lengthy amazing films. And this is no different.

I feel like I very much liked two hours and liked the other hour.

I felt the pace was perfect for what was being presented to us. The cast did amazing, the plot, script and pacing was great.

Nolan always delivers with an amazing score and this film has that as well.

The sounds and audio are something special and overall this film was very good!

Overall 8/10.

Follow for more! Pewa4real on the i.g.
0 out of 0 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?1/10
Oppenheimer: A Trailer Triumph, A Film Fumble
omidmaster15 August 2023
The movie feels more like a documentary than a feature film. When I watch the trailer, I get a completely different impression than from the movie itself. For me, it wasn't worth a trip to the cinema, even in IMAX. There were a few segments that kept me awake. While some find the film too complex, I found it more tedious than intricate. If this were shown in a university class about the history of the atomic bomb and politics, I'd give it a 6 out of 10. The film delves too much into details. Nonetheless, I'd rate the movie's marketing a 10. They promoted it exceptionally well, but the movie itself didn't live up to the hype.
20 out of 41 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?9/10
Staggering Film
philipmagnier22 August 2023
Last Summer they said that Tom Cruise had saved Hollywood with Top Gun: Maverick. If that's the case then Christopher Nolan has surely saved the theatrical release of epic serious films with Oppenheimer though also with many of his earlier films.

I've just watched it for the second time, and I'll probably go again. It's an overwhelming experience that didn't lose my attention for a second. (Go to the toilet beforehand to last the 3h duration!).

I can't fault it in writing, scene setting, acting, sound, music. But at the second viewing, it was the editing (with help from the script structure) that caught my admiration the most. There are so, so many strands in this film and to make sense of them in an entertaining, riveting way is a ginormous achievement.

There will be many deserved oscar nominations but editing, sound, music, adapted screenplay, director, best picture will be among them.

Among the actors Cillian Murphy held it together brilliantly. He's in most scenes, often musing and staring into space but there is so much going on in his eyes and expression that he holds our attention so well. Florence Pugh may be the sexiest actress in film with her intense, neurotic portrayal of a simmering communist party stalwart. Emily Bloom is so great as the staunch understated firebrand with an alcohol problem playing Opp's wife.

Robert Downey Jr. May well win the oscar as best supporting actor, he deserves it.

So does Nolan, the driver of the film, but he'll probably win in several categories.
3 out of 9 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?1/10
Just a bad movie
devindominicothomas21 August 2023
What's there to say that isn't already on the screen. I knew it was bad 20 minutes in. Begged my companions to leave the showing but we stayed since we already payed. Tenet was a big miss, but wow oh wow. Oppenheimer made Tenet look Oscar worthy. There are no redeeming qualities about this film. The narrative is boring and disinterested in explaining itself to the audience. Bomb scene was whatever. Last half an hour was painful to endure. Christopher Nolan is a great filmmaker. Or should I say was. Last two outings have been terrible. His better days are behind him. I sincerely think he has lost what once made him one of Hollywood's finest filmmakers.
17 out of 33 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?10/10
A Masterpiece in Biographical Filmmaking, Yet Yearning for Deeper Exploration
maneebmasood22 August 2023
"Oppenheimer" stands as a monumental biographical movie that captures the life and legacy of one of the most complex and significant figures in history. While it unquestionably shines as a cinematic achievement, your sentiment that you wanted more suggests a yearning for an even deeper exploration of the subject matter.

The film delves into the life of J. Robert Oppenheimer, the brilliant scientist who played a pivotal role in the development of the atomic bomb during World War II. The portrayal of his genius, his moral dilemmas, and the profound impact of his work on humanity is likely both mesmerizing and thought-provoking. The meticulous attention to detail, historical accuracy, and the portrayal of the era are all testament to the dedication of the filmmakers and the actors involved.

However, your desire for the movie to offer more might stem from a few different factors. Biographical films often face the challenge of condensing a person's life into a limited runtime, which can sometimes lead to the omission of certain aspects or events. As viewers, we might yearn for a deeper dive into the psychological complexities of the character, a more thorough exploration of the historical context, or a deeper understanding of the person's motivations and inner struggles.

"Oppenheimer" seems to have struck a chord by presenting the larger-than-life story of a fascinating individual. Yet, it's not uncommon for biographical films to leave viewers wanting more, especially when the subject's life is rich and multifaceted. This could be an indication of the film's ability to pique your interest and spark your curiosity about J. Robert Oppenheimer's life and the broader historical context in which he operated.

In the world of biographical filmmaking, balancing storytelling, historical accuracy, and the complexity of a person's life is a delicate art. It's possible that the movie's impact on you might lead you to explore further, whether through reading biographies, researching historical accounts, or engaging in discussions about the subject.

In conclusion, "Oppenheimer" appears to have succeeded in crafting a biographical movie that captures the essence of its subject and the historical significance of his contributions. My desire for more depth signifies the film's ability to engage and stimulate my curiosity. While the movie might not provide every detail I was hoping for, it could serve as a steppingstone for deeper exploration and understanding of the remarkable individual and the era in which he lived.
2 out of 10 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?10/10
3 Hours of fascination
mauritsvc16 August 2023
I've watched a lot of movies in my 18 years on this planet but never have I been this focused on a movie, and that for 3 hours. There wasn't a moment during the film where I was wondering when it ended or when I got bored and wondered off with my mind. No, for every second of this movie I was completely immersed with what played out on screen. I'm a massive fan of Nolans work but this movie surpassed all of my expectations tenfold. The only possible grade i could give it is a 10 just because of how amazed I am. The sets looks amazing and the visuals are stunning. The fact IMAX made a new camera just for this movie says it all about Nolans work. He, just like Oppenheimer, is a genius.

Thank you Nolan.
2 out of 5 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?5/10
Oppenheimer is not a very enjoyable move to watch
gimili397921 August 2023
I will start this review by stating that I have yet to compare the movie to the "true story" of Oppenheimer. I think that is a good thing as I do not want my review to be based solely on whether or not the movie is historically accurate, but whether or not I enjoyed the move overall.

It is 3 hours long. It feels like it is 3 hours long. From a strictly movie perspective, I would advise against thinking this movie will be as riveting as the trailers make it. It is not.

Most of the problem regarding this movie centers around the understory, which by the end becomes rather long and boring. I wonder how historically accurate it is too?

I cannot go any further other than to state that Oppenheimer is to documentary movies what the movie, JFK, was to documentary movies. The entire time watching it I felt it was Hollywood script and not reality.

The one thing I did like about the movie was the overall message that you arrive at. In today's world, I thought it was an important message. But if you are looking for a great Christopher Nolan film, watch, The Dark Knight. It was far better than Oppenheimer in terms of enjoyability.

Even great directors need to realize that historical cinema needs to be told with a level of actual human emotion that is accurate and to the point. It works much better for real life events than to try to come up with something you think will work as Hollywood "based on a true story" movie making. The acting is great, but the film is not.

But there is no doubt that for whatever reason people seem to really like this film based on the current review ratings. Overall, I thought it had a good moral message, but was otherwise incredibly long and boring with a questionable amount of historical accuracy.
9 out of 13 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?8/10
Deeply Engrossing
i_odin27 August 2023
Oppenheimer is Nolan's latest period drama. In a sense it does connect Nolan's previous films in an interesting arch. Oppenheimer was the person who wrote a paper on Black Hole, which incidentally is the central premise of Interstellar (and quite famously so). Nolan's previous film Dunkirk also is based on World War II which it shares with Oppenheimer as well. I feel there is a connection in the sense that perhaps Nolan got inspired to tell the stories from each other as if his whole slate of films culminated in him making this movie.

Oppenheimer is not just one of the finest cinemas of the year but is also Nolan's most mature and tame movie in terms of storytelling. My only grievance with Nolan was his over-stylistic approach towards mundane story materials. But with Oppenheimer he has redeamed himself quite a lot.

This movie is not only an excellent character study (which again is what I felt was missing from his earlier movies) but at the same time a quintessential Nolan-esque drama. The storytelling is non-linear as you would expect it from Nolan's movie but at no point it seems gimmicky or just a means to create drama out of mundane screenplay. The non-linearity creates drama it enhances storytelling and in fact helps the character development further. The visual style adds thrill and rhythm to what could have been a boring history lesson. The performances are powerful overboard. Murphy's charming and flamboyant performance of Oppenheimer is never a caricature but a character which has its own life. He doesn't imitate Oppenheimer yet he brings all those subtle nuances to that big IMAX screen that you find yourself deeply submerged in his performance.

This movie is surely going to create buzz around the awards season. But even if it doesn't win it surely is going to be remembered forever for being the movie that cemented Nolan's posi8in cinema history as not just the guy known for big budget mind bending blockbusters but perhaps one of the most iconic storytellers.

Go watch it if you haven't yet.
0 out of 1 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?5/10
I am a Nolan fan but .....
SnappyBuddha17 August 2023
The movie's main issue is that it didn't need to be so complicated. Movies can be engaging without being confusing, like "The Godfather," "Shawshank Redemption," or "Million Dollar Baby." Another problem is that the movie drags on because it's too long and some parts feel slow.

I was expecting a movie about an atomic bomb and science, but there's hardly any science in it, well that is an individual perspective. They only show the explosion briefly, and then the movie focuses on something else.

Then they tried to make Oppenheimer a hero, but if you think about it, he wasn't perfect. He cheated on his partner, had affairs, and had connections with communists, even helping them. Considering the time and the situation in the US back then, he could easily have looked suspicious. They could have focused more on the science and used good effects like in "Interstellar," which in itself is a good combination.

The only good thing about the movie is the actors. All of them did a great job, which is a positive aspect. This is the first time I'm so disappointed with a movie from Christopher Nolan.
2 out of 5 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?10/10
A Staggering Acheivement
david-meldrum28 August 2023
Where Tenet failed to rescue post-pandemic cinema, Oppenheimer (along with the very different, eye-wateringly successful, Barbie) may well have succeeded. Christopher Nolan has made a three-hour film, partly in black and white, historical biopic that is mostly men in rooms talking, that grapples with huge moral, ethical and historical issues and turned it into one of the megahits of blockbuster season. In the process, he's rebooted the biopic genre, one of cinema's most creatively moribund genres, an achievement it's hard to imagine any other film-makers taking on.

Two often quoted issues with Nolan's work - a perceived emotional coldness, and poorly served female characters - are worth touching on here. Emotionally this is devastating, daringly empathetic towards such a divisive and complex central character; the women are better written than in some Nolan films, the emotional cost to them of a driven, hero complex man spelled out in ways that may be questionable but certainly asks for thoughtfulness.

Performances are remarkable; Downey Junior layered, Cillian Murphy magnetic and extraordinary. The whole cast is playing in the big leagues here. Technically it's a masterclass; editing, sound design, cinematography and much else working in concert. The almost omnipresent score is sensational; the pivotal test explosion scene is staged unforgettably.

All in all a remarkable, extraordinary, propulsive and utterly gripping film that will demand reward repeated viewings. If it's my favourite Nolan, I'm not sure - but I suspect not; but it's more than likely that history will judge it his best and most important achievement.
0 out of 1 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?10/10
Oppenheimer uncertainty
vuongshelldez23 August 2023
I think the implied idea behind is: Oppenheimer was not sure about the multi-chain reaction of activating a nuclear bomb will lead to the destruction of the whole earth. Nor he was sure about a nuclear war escalation and international multi-chain reaction after the US own their nuclear weapon. There is an impressive scene when a meeting is held to protest the releasing of the nuclear bomb in the WW2. And Oppenheimer, after such a very hard and uninterrupted time struggling himself, says something like: "If we human cannot see the power of the nuclear weapon ourself, we will never stop being so curious about its power. Sooner or later it has to be a bomb release into the battlefield, and its terrifying consequence will create a very strong deterrence. Fortunately, releasing two bombs in Japan did not destroy the whole earth, but it did destroy human intention to escalate and put the world into a nuclear war. As for now, we can have a beautiful Oppenheimer film to contemplate.
0 out of 5 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?7/10
Somewhat disappointing
silviuzz-314-17001028 August 2023
Way too long. It could have lasted 1h less without a problem, cutting all the political part (remember the nice text at the end of a film that explains what happened next? Exactly what I was hoping for at a certain point). It is the first time EVER I looked at the watch continuously while at the cinema, hoping for an end. The acting was great but I did not like the plot AT ALL. I hated the imaginery "Beautiful Mind" and "The Queen's Gambit" scenes, I hated the flashbacks (some in B&W, while others not), I hated the fact Oppenheimer was so poorly depicted in his intimate personality and thoughts. Too much characters doing stuff alltogether, really I advise you to read a bit of history (like a who did what in real life) before watching the movie. At home, with lots of water and popcorn at your side.
1 out of 1 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?6/10
Confusionheimer
PizzaBizza28 August 2023
I don't know man, was this really necessary? Three different time stages for just a biopic? Sure, it's Nolan and there is no way Nolan would tell a straight story, but overall the movie did not work for me. I mean, come on, just tell the story, spit it out man. From A (development of da bomb) to B (Military exploits it) to C (remorse and political aftermath). Is it necessary to mix this all up?

1. Story Telling: Nolan is just not a good story teller. A nice twist here and there, or some surprise or revelation at the end would be fine, but Nolan just randomly throws us bits of information, it's so hard to follow. And pointing to some scene in the beginning of a 3h movie just to "reveal" that some dialog was not as expected in the end ... it's just not well told. Just tell the story from A to B to C and I would be satisfied.

2. Music: The score was too heavy for the content. I remember a scene with really intense violin noise during a dialogue, as if something of upmost importance was revealed. But if it was I would not know. I found it hard to concentrate through all the noise. It was probably nothing, at least the movie just continued.

3. Too much, much too much information, characters and garbage: I did not know who half of the characters were, their names, their function, their connections or goals. Best and most recognizable was probably Matt Damon. He was the only side character with clear goals to me. But the rest? I am not even sure what the two hearings were about. Revenge of Mr Strauss, but for what exactly? That he did not hear the dialogue between Oppenheimer and Einstein? Did he feel left out? Maybe it was explained, but I must have missed it.

4. The technical side: The start was good, explaining the astronomical side of things, but I already thought to myself that the explanations were not good. If you don't have any knowledge of the matter you won't understand, and if you do you just nod understandingly. This was the first time of many I thought to myself that Nolan just does not care about his audience. He might want to show off some of his knowledge but in a way to constantly tell you how stupid you are not to understand the scientific or political backgrounds. I would have wished to see more 30's and 40's tech stuff, for example how they actually shot neutrons at atoms. Instead all we get is some oszillating waves on a spectrometer and that's it. That's the proof. No further explanation. The Trinity scene is awesome, probably the best part of the film, but even then Nolan had to switch constantly between character shots and the explosion. Man, just show us the explosion in one nice shot. That's what I am here for. To see the bomb get off.

I left cinema like so many Nolan movies: Exhausted, confused and thinking I am too stupid to understand a simple bio pic. This is probably my last Nolan movie for some time. I need a break and a movie with a clear and understandable story line. Maybe something more like Lost Highway or something.
2 out of 2 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?8/10
Great parts, lotsa hoopla
artmed22 August 2023
Just got home from seeing "Oppenheimer in 70mm": lots to unpack. (I had read one bio, just not *this book.) Acting is amazing, as is the cast. Awards coming; "which" is elusive.

Camerawork, maybe less-so. Still, it's really hard to tell why Nolan (I'm usually a fan) was so insistent on doing this on big film, cuz it appears he *inserted artifacts -of which real filmophiles will be quite critical. The reportedly-reinvented B/W stock is less than exciting, a bit overly-contrasty.

The focus-puller will be out of a job, *that's fer sure. Every shot at wide open = limited depth of field -and focus is *rarely on top of the story!

The nonsensical filmic artifacts made me hungry for big digital enhancements, but I gotta say, it was (momentarily) nostalgic to see the print draping across the projection booth to the projector.

Seeing the Project employees cheer at the announcement of the drop of FatBoy felt real, as did "Oppy's" vision of the play out of its effects on them. This is more about politics than physics: (disappointing in *that, perhaps) it does show sides of the scientists as characters.

See the production, yes, but no hurry for the film version. I gave it an 8, but it's actually a 9 (long at 3hrs) but viewed as a rental is probably OK.
1 out of 6 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?8/10
Many stories in one, but not the whole story
rubenverheul19 August 2023
Meandering between cinematographic bombast (a trademark Christopher Nolan spectacle) and theatre-like subtlety (Cillian Murphy's multi-layered facial expressions alone are worth it) Oppenheimer is a very engaging watch.

It tells several stories-ranging from the personal to the 'systemic'-and, of course, uses multiple timelines. For the most part, Nolan succeeds in making sense of his characters' interconnections and personal ambitions, beliefs and dilemma's. Some aspects, however, stay on the surface. Kitty, Oppenheimer's wife (an excellent Emily Blunt) and Jean Tatlock, his mistress (Florence Pugh), could, perhaps, have added some more depth in the personal and political sphere.

To me, Oppenheimer, while being monumentally and masterfully portrayed here, is still a bit of an enigma. His transition from fundamental theory to... errr... applied science and... well... management to political activism (coupled with a strong longing for recognition?), left quite some questions. Then again, this movie is so fully packed with stunning visuals, great acting and clever dialogues, that I may have missed a hint or two. Oppenheimer certainly needs (and deserves) a second view.

By the way, one of the stories Nolan does not tell, is the one about the native inhabitants of New Mexico. What happened to them in the aftermath of 'Trinity'? There must be a movie in that. One that will probably make you feel even more digusted about the Manhattan Project...
0 out of 1 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?3/10
Overhyping is counterproductive as it raises expectations to unrealistic levels that leads to disappointment
atischoo23 August 2023
Sorry but it just doesn't live up to the pre-game hype! And it's certainly not worth the extra for an IMAX viewing of bland desert landscapes, meetings and chalkboards full of maths symbols!

Yes it tells a story of a complicated man, in a complicated time in history but too many stories jumping around back and forth with a music score so overbearing in places it was starting to give me a headache (earplugs stopped me walking out for a break)

Strange though, as with nearly three hours runtime, Nolan chose not to use a single Japanese actor for a few scenes from their perspective in the aftermath?

For me Downey Jr gave a standout performance even in support as did Matt Damon. Blunt's low amount of screen time was noticeable, as the wife in support of a brilliant contrarian, but boring cerebral genius, who fared little better than Churchill in the post war years! (They had both served their purpose in war)

Will watch again on the small screen to go back over details missed, in all that loud music & scene jumping..maybe Nolan will do a directors cut to add in the Japanese perspective?
8 out of 11 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?10/10
Incredible
alanhobbs-8500328 August 2023
Wow, what a film. Next year's Best actor and best supporting actor Oscars simply must go to Cillian Murphy and RDJ. My only slight criticism is that the amazing score sometimes drowned out the dialogue. You need to concentrate though, as there are a large number of characters to keep track of. I was surprised at how much emphasis there was on the post war witch hunts and hearings, where Oppenheimer was basically being denigrated every which way but loose, and I shouldn't have been as I've read American Prometheus, and the film is extremely true to the book, and that was quite a heavy read. Loved every minute of this remarkable film.
0 out of 1 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?10/10
Nolan's magnum opus
kobid-7511115 August 2023
Oppenheimer's release has been widely anticipated since its announcement by many, including me. Nolan is known as one of the leading directors of this generation, and rightfully so.

Oppenheimer is a masterpiece in filmmaking through and through. Nolan delivers on a strong screenplay with some wonderfully directed scenes and great dialogue and tension all throughout. Despite the movie being 3 hours long, it hardly feels so, as the movies reels you in and hooks you all throughout. I had not expected the movie to focus so much on the political aspect but I'm glad Nolan made that decision. Despite the lack of action that many would have enjoyed, it's an engaging movie and highly entertaining, leaving us with questions to ponder upon.

Cillian Murphy delivers arguably his best ever performance as the audience are told the story through the eyes of the namesake. Murphy is backed up by a brilliant ensemble cast where everybody delivers on their performance, notably Downey Jr., Jason Clarke, Emily Blunt, Josh Hartnett and Alden Ehrenreich.

The technical aspect of this movie is astonishing as Nolan surrounds himself with some of the industry's best. Hoyte van Hoytema's brilliant cinematography is a treat to our eyes and the in camera effects for the movie do not disappoint. Editor Jennifer Lame must also be given credit for fast pacing the movie as such

However it must be said, that this movie is not for general audiences. I can see why it isn't to a lot of people's liking and that's completely fine. However if you have enjoyed Nolan's previous movies and will enjoy a 3 hour political/scientific thriller movie, then I highly recommend you give Oppenheimer a watch.
3 out of 7 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?10/10
Best movie of this year
avaahmedhz16 August 2023
I highly recommend this movie. It's so informative. I didn't even felt bore for a second. This movie is one of the best movies of all time. Christopher nolan and cillian Murphy is a good team. Hope to see MORE from them in future. Specially the bomb explosion moments. And the story before that. I really felt so real at the moments of Oppenheimer's shock. The regret of him. Those moments were really good. I loved the cinematography. And robert downey junior's acting was top notch. At first i couldn't even recognise him. He was totally in the character. And florence pugh was amazing as well. So many favourite characters together. Felt like "avengers end game last scene" everyone was there. SO GOOD!!!
2 out of 6 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?1/10
A very long trailer! That's all!
ahmedalmansur26 August 2023
A huge waste of effort, money and most importantly fine acting! The way the film was cut and moved from one scene to another through different timelines could have been a million times better! It was a good idea but very poorly executed even the music was exaggerated in some scenes, the build up to the climax and anti climax was awful.

One of joys in life is to watch films good or bad by the way, this is the first time in my life to wish I can either skip or leave a film in the middle!

I realise it's been over inflated over analyzed to mean so and so but this film was simply a director failure!
1 out of 2 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?10/10
Nolan Has Done it Again
carlpeterson-2113028 August 2023
This is Nolan at his finest. Never was I bored and the actors all performed really well. Goosebumps when Einstein gave his wise words at the end. I mean, this was probably one of the greatest movies of all time and I'm so glad I watched it in Imax in 70mm. There's really something special about seeing a movie in 70mm and this is a great example of one to do it.

Someone give Murphy the Oscar. The courtroom scenes and little courtroom office scenes were incredible. This movie kept my attention the entire time and I never felt bored even though it was 3 hours long. I'm hoping they make a part 2, kidding! But great watch!
0 out of 1 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?10/10
The Oppenheimer Movie: A cinematic masterpiece with outstanding storytelling
mehmet-ali-sh18 August 2023
"Oppenheimer," directed by Christopher Nolan, is an extraordinary cinematic achievement that captivates audiences with its brilliant storytelling and impeccable craftsmanship. The film delves into the life and complex persona of J. Robert Oppenheimer, the renowned physicist who played a pivotal role in the development of the atomic bomb during World War II.

One of the film's greatest strengths lies in its masterful direction and visual presentation. Nolan's signature style shines through as he skillfully weaves together multiple timelines, seamlessly blending past and present. The cinematography is breathtaking, with stunning visuals that transport viewers to the era and settings in which the story unfolds. From the vast New Mexico desert to the tense laboratory scenes, every frame is meticulously crafted and visually striking.

The performances in "Oppenheimer" are nothing short of exceptional. The casting choices are spot-on, with actors who effortlessly embody their characters. The lead role of J. Robert Oppenheimer is portrayed with great depth and nuance by a talented actor, who captures the internal conflict and moral dilemmas faced by the renowned scientist. The supporting cast delivers equally powerful performances, bringing to life the various individuals who were part of Oppenheimer's journey.

The film's screenplay is intelligent and thought-provoking, exploring the ethical implications of scientific advancements and the devastating consequences of the atomic bomb. It raises profound questions about the responsibilities of scientists and the price of progress. The dialogue is sharp and engaging, providing insight into the complex personalities of the characters and their motivations.

"Oppenheimer" is an intellectually stimulating and emotionally resonant film that challenges viewers to contemplate the moral dilemmas faced by scientists in the pursuit of knowledge and progress. It is a testament to Christopher Nolan's directorial prowess and the exceptional talents of the cast and crew involved. This cinematic masterpiece will undoubtedly leave a lasting impression on audiences and spark conversations long after the credits roll.

In conclusion, "Oppenheimer" is a must-see film that combines superb direction, outstanding performances, and a thought-provoking narrative. It is a testament to the power of cinema to enlighten and entertain simultaneously, solidifying its place as one of the most remarkable films of the year.
1 out of 3 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?2/10
Wort movie I have ever seen. Wasted 3 hours of my life
hamidreza-7184026 August 2023
It seems like this movie has taken the art of confusion to a whole new level! It's as if the characters within it are participants in a grand scavenger hunt, desperately searching for the elusive plot that seems to be playing a game of hide-and-seek. In a world where the concept of a middle, an end, or even coherent dialogue seems optional, this film boldly embraces the unknown, treating viewers to a symphony of uncertainty and a parade of slo-mo scenes that could make a snail look speedy.

If, by some miraculous twist of fate, this cinematic wonder manages to snatch an Oscar, I can already envision the trophy for "Best Mystery in Motion" proudly displayed on its mantle. But let's not forget the silver lining in all this: congratulations are in order! Thanks to this movie, you're officially released from the shackles of regular movie nights. Your popcorn budget will remain untouched, and your cinematic curiosity can now find solace in other forms of storytelling.
7 out of 11 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?4/10
Good actors, boring and confusing story line :(
gb11220 August 2023
Was at the IMAX Leonberg, Germany in the largest cinema in the world and watched the film there.

* Absolutely confusing (especially for "Oppenheimer-Bio" newbies), jumps back and forth in time * information, information, information, information and no time to digest * arc of suspense = zero * Trinity test in the desert of Los Alamos ... boring, except for the felt 250db sound pressure in the IMAX

The acting as a biopic is OK, but I expected (especially with these ratings) MUCH more.

OT (a bit maybe): I would have liked to leave the cinema with a clear message in my brain, namely that we men have known since the dawn of mankind that we can bring so much misery and ruin into the world with our "masculinity" and this was obviously the case in the 20th century and, as you can see, is still the case in the 21st century and will probably remain so until mankind finally manages to eradicate itself.

It breaks my heart the way Leeloo´s did in the 5th Element when she arrives at the word "war" while learning the words, sees what it means and bursts into tears in the process.

I felt the same way watching this scene! And this one scene left sooooo much more traces in my brain than 3 hours of Oppenheimer.

As we all know, the hope that the A-bomb ended all wars has not come true. I believe that humanity only faces final destruction, be it the threat of an astroid impact or when the environmental catastrophes (droughts, water shortages, fires...) become so immense that only then do we understand that fighting each other must STOP.

Sorry, I just had to get that off my chest.
9 out of 13 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?7/10
The world's longest trailer.
domtaylor21 August 2023
Oppenheimer has phenomenal performances, cinematography and, for the most part, direction. It also has a superb score by Ludwig Görannson (and it has a lot of score, too - 94 minutes of it to be precise). Also, its use of practical effects is staggering. I have no idea how some of the shots were achieved.

The story is an interesting one, too, but its editing style nearly always kept me at arms length emotionally. The whole film is edited like the world's longest trailer, jumping from scene to scene so quickly that you rarely get chance to feel anything before being thrown into a new environment, timeline or perspective. Nolan seemed to adopt this editing style with his previous effort, Tenet; I wasn't a fan of it then and I'm certainly not a fan of it now. For a man who wants you to not "try to understand it", but to "feel it", this seems like a very strange choice. Yes, there is a lot to cover here but there is also 3 whole hours to cover it. The rapid editing doesn't do the length any favours either; it makes it feel its length because there are so many scenes and so much information is thrown at you in each and every one of them.

Where the film works best is when it actually slows down a little; the whole Trinity test sequence takes its time to build tension and is truly fantastic. The same can be said for a post-Trinity speech scene that really delves into the titular protagonist's psyche. That scene is my favourite of the entire year; its formalistic flourishes (the type of which Nolan typically tends to avoid) are used to perfection and create a really affecting atmosphere. I just wish more of the picture had taken its time to build emotion instead of being more concerned with rapidly throwing information at you left, right and centre. It's a good film for sure, and deserving of the many Oscars that are sure to be thrown its way, but for my money it's not one of Nolan's best.
5 out of 7 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?7/10
Some great parts, well made. Too long, kind of dull. Didn't care for any of the characters.
SimCinSpirit22 August 2023
TL:DR. - Too long, kind of dull. Didn't care for any of the characters.

"Oppenheimer," Nolan's latest, brings together a monumental cast that delivers notably strong performances, particularly from Murphy and Downey Jr. Ludwig Göransson's score is a haunting backbone to the film's technical prowess. However, the movie's pacing suffers from its nonlinear structure and a convoluted array of characters, often overshadowing its more profound moments. While technically impressive, the film may be too intricate for its own good, struggling to consistently engage its audience throughout its three-hour run. Nolan aficionados might find value, but others may find it wanting.
6 out of 6 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?10/10
This isn't just another film, this truly reveals...
zibshadow14 August 2023
This isn't just another film, this truly reveals what a moviegoing experience still can be in todays age. Absolute masterclass on complicated filmmaking sequencing, Nolan's entire filmmaking career has led up to this film. The film was not too long it was literally the perfect length for the range in timelines, the people complaining have the attention span lesser than a goldfish. (Keep in mind people are creating new accounts to lower the rating of this film lmao) Nolan likes to space things out in his movies, but Oppenheimer comes together like a crescendo at different rapid pace. I especially want to mention how movie theaters are doing less screenings every year now, people think it's the end of movie going. It doesn't have to be because 70mm perf. IMAX is a solution, yes it is expensive to film and distribute. But the grossing numbers keep climbing every single day, breaking box office records and also constantly sold out in true 70mm 5-perf. IMAX showings.

Two Major things in this film


4 out of 13 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?9/10
Nice Movie
abhijeetzambare-6449622 August 2023
I'm still collecting my thoughts after experiencing this film, Cillian Murphy might as well start clearing a space on his mantle for the Best Actor Oscar.

This film is a masterclass in weaving narratives and different time periods while exploring the profound depths of a man whose actions altered the world's trajectory forever, for better or worse. Nolan brings us into the complexities of Oppenheimer, and all the moral conflicts stirring within him.

Murphy's portrayal is so riveting that the long run-time became an afterthought. Robert Downey Jr also offers a great performance and Nolan's push and pull with how he uses sound design throughout is the cherry on top.

Some viewers might need a brief refresher on WWII and Cold War history, but any film lover should be happy to willingly lose themselves in this film for hours on end.
0 out of 5 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?10/10
An out of body experience
bpvbkmyh16 August 2023
Quite simply one of the best films I've ever seen im just lost for words at how good this movie is the casting the directing there's no one thing in particular but just sometimes a movie comes along and everything is just so perfect that leaves you lost for words and I have a bone to pick with Mr Nolan he's the only guy who has me crying at some point in his movies I think that says it all really and just make sure you see it in the IMAX this will win everything come awards time no contest everybody else better go home 😆 I never thought another movie would get me like Shaw Shank Redemption but there you go it has.
1 out of 7 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?1/10
Worst movie I've ever seen in cinema
lgkvidfar21 August 2023
There were many things that made the movie not as good as I expected: poor writing, non-immersive acting from most characters & non-stop ear-deafening sounds among others.

However, what made this the worst movie I've ever seen in cinema is the quickspeakallwordswuicklyandmoveontothenextscene style editing which made the entire film feel like a three hour social media summary.

It was as if they refused to leave out a single scene, a singe line that was shot and just threw it all together with zero room to breathe.

One fast-paced dialogue with loud dramatic sounds after another, non-stop for the first hour, like a book with no punctuation or paragraphs, set me up for not engaging with or caring about a single character.

Linear, non-linear, doesn't matter. I loved Memento, Citizen Kane etc, Oppenheimer was just poor storytelling, speedy cuts and loud sounds.

I'm convinced the only reason it gained the extraordinarily high ratings it currently holds is due to hype, Nolan idolization and people being scared to admit they didn't "understand it" and in a short while people will look back at this movie and not fathom how in the world it could have been so well-recieved.

I genuinely wanted to like this movie, but it was appaling.
22 out of 43 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?9/10
Watch it at the Cinema to appreciate this masterpiece.
shanemeneer18 August 2023
If you do not know the story about Robert Oppenheimer you can't just jump into it and think you will enjoy this movie as there is a good chance you may not get it.

So I strongly recommend you do a little research on line about Robert Oppenheimer first.

The film is over 3 hours long it's intense and emotional in parts as well keeps you edge of you seat such a fantastic story.

If you are into world war 2 history especially this film certainly will be on your street.

Cillian Murphy is literally outstanding! Seriously plays the part incredibly well!!

This movie needs to be appreciated in the cinema!
2 out of 6 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?8/10
Great! But is it too much and very confusing.
jakobhansl17 August 2023
Wonderful movie I like looking at history movies. Great Story line. But its very confusing the timeline is very Hard too understand. Till the second hour you can Look a Wonderful After it you loose interest. Charakter are great picked and historically good. Also they are very near with the Real Person (historically). Wonderful colours great camera and direction. My Problem is that He have Differential scenes in Different times and you dont directly understand it and this brings you out of context Till the End Beginns because their you realise what its All about. But generally it is a great movie by a great director.
0 out of 1 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?5/10
Good marketing caused the only IMAX 70mm theater in EU to be sold out for many weeks
PepcaP26 August 2023
Brief summary: it wasn't worth it. Much better experience in IMAX 2D was e.g. Oblivion (including a soundtrack by M83). A much better WWII related story was e.g. The movie Enigma. A much better biopic story with flashbacks was e.g. Professor Marston & the Wonder Women

But if you're interested in American politics and intrigue, go for it. Pay attention to all the characters (and there are a lot of them), many will prove to be very important after another hour or two...

The only humor was for the initiated (Kurt Godel appreciating trees :-) to mention one instance).

One more metric: I categorize movies into several groups, the best ones I would go to the cinema again and again (and often do), the ones that impress me I want to see again in the cinema, and the others I have no interest in seeing repeatedly. Oppenheimer, unfortunately, I had to put in the latter group.
7 out of 9 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?10/10
Cillian Murphy was the perfect casting decision for documenting one of the most important developments in history.
jlee462-933-51495319 August 2023
Unbelievable movie. Cillian Murphy is a brilliant actor. Nolan's approach to documenting the levity of such a pivotal moment while accurately injecting the pursuit of science amidst the poison of politics is really beautiful to watch.

I found myself expecting the bomb scene to be the craziest moment in the film and then realizing I didn't even really care about that anywhere near as much as I cared about thinking about how it must have felt to be him. Completely amazing.

With regard to the subject matter and execution, this is the best biography of a man I have ever watched and it didn't even really get anywhere near into his psychology as it could have.
0 out of 1 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?8/10
Christopher Nolan presents a riveting and gripping movie
madanmarwah25 August 2023
Christopher Nolan movies are not always easy to watch and comprehend because of the complex structure of the narrative and a heavy emphasis on technology driven picturisation. This movie has garnered huge praise not only for its superb story telling technique but also for the IMAX format in which it is shot. Fans of Nolan will easily spot his signature touches like a non linear complex narrative, real/ virtual scenario, timeline shifts, superb cinematography, alternate use of color/ BW format, characters facing acute moral dilemma, effective use of background music etc etc.

To be fair this movie is a riveting watch despite the long runtime of nearly 3 hours with high focus on dialogue and low focus on action. (A celebrity had mentioned that a lot of talking takes place and nothing else happens for the first 90 minutes. Partly true because the narrative does move forward albeit slowly). A few interesting aspects. A skillful use of BW to show historic reality and colour to show the his perception or point of view. A teasing of the audience by the director through repetitive use of few visuals intermittently like Oppenheimer meeting Alfred Einstein which unravels in stages. It helps if the audience has a basic knowledge of chemical reactions relating to a nuclear bomb since there is considerable discussion in a number of scenes. Towards the end Oppenheimer's meeting with the President leaves a lasting impact on the audience. No amount of praise is enough for the director's superlative and award worthy work. It's probably his best to date. Cillian Murphy has performed superbly which may fetch him an award. Among the ensemble of actors Robert Downey Jr and Matt Damon stand out. They may also receive awards.
1 out of 5 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?10/10
Perfect in every way
Aelenthia28 August 2023
I really have no negative thoughts to express about this exceptional movie. I was able to go through the whole thing in the cinema without a single distraction, which is a rare occurrence having in mind the state of the film industry of lately.

The movie will be worth your time, especially if you have an appreciation for physics and history.

Dialogue is great, scenery and effects are amazing, but I must say that this couldn't have become the success it is without the genius performance of Cillian Murphy and his perfect interpretation of one of the most important figures in modern history.

Overall an absolute must-watch.
0 out of 2 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?10/10
Amazing
weishen-2703524 August 2023
"Oppenheimer" is a cinematic masterpiece that delves into the life of J. Robert Oppenheimer, the brilliant physicist behind the creation of the atomic bomb. With meticulous attention to historical accuracy, the film paints a compelling portrait of Oppenheimer's complex persona, highlighting his scientific genius, ethical dilemmas, and the profound impact of his work on humanity. The cinematography beautifully captures the era's essence, while stellar performances, particularly by the lead, breathe life into the character. The narrative navigates through Oppenheimer's internal struggles, the Manhattan Project's moral ambiguity, and the global repercussions of unleashing atomic power. Though a bit dense at times, the film's thought-provoking exploration of science, power, and morality lingers long after the credits roll. A must-watch for history buffs, science enthusiasts, and anyone intrigued by the interplay of intellect and consequence.
1 out of 7 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?4/10
super boring, irrelevantly meandering second half
bertrandborn19 August 2023
"Oppenheimer" boasts a stellar cast delivering commendable performances. But its excessive runtime with tedious plot detracts from the viewing experience, compounded by its lack of engagement or identification with any of the characters.

Disappointingly, the movie fails to explore even the most basic scientific aspects it promises, offering no insightful takeaways whatsoever. Similarly, Oppenheimer's intriguing personality remains flat, unemotional and unexplored, lacking credible depth.

The movie also fails to convey the horrifying impact of the nuclear bombings in Japan, omitting a vista of destroyed Hiroshima or Nagasaki, hundreds if thousand of killed or cripples civilian victims, or the US bomber pilot's remorse leading to self-sabotage (and an alleged suicide attempt) after witnessing the horridic aftermath of his actions. By sidestepping these controversies, the film glosses over the darkest facets of nuclear warfare. The failure to adequately address the moral complexities of arms races and deterrence further diminishes its impact.

Adding to its woes, the second half of the film tediously meanders aimlessly, introducing an artificial conflict between Oppenheimer and Strauss that goes on and on an on... This narrative detour feels disconnected from the movie's core theme and comes across as poorly executed screenwriting, beyond being infinitely and intolerably boring.

All-in, the film falls short of its potential, offering few new insight and leaving viewers bored and exhausted. In light of its tedious pacing and lack of substance, "Oppenheimer" struggles to justify its viewing time and fails to leave a lasting impression. Alas, a movie not worth watching.
6 out of 12 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?Impressive bold Nolan production
gortx17 August 2023
Like its subject, Christopher Nolan's OPPENHEIMER is bold, flawed and largely successful. An impressive production that - while wide in scale and covering a span of several decades, also manages to be an intimate biography of the man at its center - J. Robert Oppenheimer (Cillian Murphy). Nolan's screenplay (based on a book by Kai Bird and Martin Sherwin) is divided into three basic movements, although the story freely bounces back and forth in time. Nolan further bisects the film into subjective vs. Objective viewpoints (signaled by Color and B&W photography, respectively).

The first part mainly deals with Oppenheimer's rise from a promising physics student to his selection to head the Manhattan Project. It's the most personal section of the film, and also the most experimental. Nolan unfolds the story as if through his subject's mind. Oppenheimer, while a brilliant scientist, isn't the finest mathematician. He's a 'big picture' thinker. He views the world as it if it were an equation that needs solving. The backdrop of the Red Scare looms over everything. Oppenheimer isn't interested in the politics of communism - but, he is keen on what he considers just causes. This leads him into an orbit where his wife Kitty (Emily Blunt) and his mistress Jean Tatlock (Florence Pugh) both communist connections (not to mention his own brother, Frank (Dylan Arnold)). It's a daunting first movement for a three-hour film, but, it puts the viewer into the perspective of its protagonist quite brilliantly.

The middle section covers Oppenheimer's helming of the The Manhattan Project and the creation, testing and usage of the Atomic Bomb. It's more straightforward in its telling even if told largely through Oppenheimer's eyes. That constricted POV doesn't give the other agencies, scientists and personnel outside the Los Alamos Trinity encampment that were part of the bomb development due credit, but it's in keeping with the subjective story-telling. Matt Damon as Lt. General Groves represents the intermediary between the larger government and Oppenheimer and his project staff.

The third act, focusing on Oppenheimer's post-war years is the most problematic. Throughout the first two chapters, a pair of proceedings are flash-forwarded to: A 1954 security briefing where Oppenheimer's Top Secret security clearance is up for review; And, a 1959 Senate confirmation hearing where the head of the Atomic Energy Commission, Lewis Strauss (Robert Downey Jr.), is being considered for a Presidential Cabinet position (Oppenheimer had been part of the AEC). Both sessions are largely rendered in Black & White in keeping with the more 'objective' story-telling. However, by shifting the focus from the inside to more of the outside, it takes the viewer out of Oppenheimer's head where the film has primarily remained for two hours. The audience is now watching, not participating. It flattens the film when it should be be heightening the tragedy of his later years. He became an outspoken advocate for weapons control - but, without the affirmation of the federal government (and some in the scientific community including his once friendly adversary, Edward Teller (Benny Safdie). It's well acted, and the epilogue with Albert Einstein (Tom Conti) and Oppenheimer is a sobering epitaph, but, it certainly lessens the impact of what had been built up to by that juncture. Nolan's notion of creating artificial suspense surrounding the question of who was the real Judas in Oppenheimer's life isn't a sufficient dramatic or emotional substitute.

Cillian Murphy is very strong as the title character, commanding the screen for the full running time. It's not showy by any means, but truly determined work. Pugh is excellent as usual, even if the film never gives her character enough screen-time. Blunt's performance is decent, but, her makeup, hair and costuming make her unduly frumpy as Oppenheimer's alcoholic wife. The huge cast is quite effective, even down to the smallest roles: Downey Jr. Getting one of the few splashy roles. Damon gives his military man more of a relatable presence, even if he isn't exactly the epitome of a grizzled officer. On a technical level, OPPENHEIMER is polished with Hoyt Van Hoytema's 70mm cinematography taking center stage. Ludwig Gorranson's score is well composed, but Nolan's sound mix does it no favors (a common complaint about his films; the dialogue also suffers here).

Nolan's direction is assured, always maintaining focus on the man more than his mission. Occasionally, some of the special effects flourishes intrude even if they have made the film more accessible than it otherwise might have been to the general public. Likewise, the intrusion of an intimate physical act in the middle of a closed door hearing reminds one of the ill-conceived cross-cutting of a similar kind in Spielberg's MUNICH. Minor concerns aside, Nolan has done an admirable job corralling so many crucial elements here. An accomplished film that transcends the usual "Bio-Pic' label.
1 out of 2 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?3/10
Left the Theater
kb62023 August 2023
I had been waiting to see this for a month and finally was able to have time to see it. I have just enough knowledge to know who Oppenheimer was but didnt know the full story behind him. There was constant time hopping and so many substories within the main story I couldn't keep track of what and why all these were relevant. Not to mention tons of characters and no idea how they were related to what was happening or their importance. As someone who is interested in learning about history I really tried to hang with it and just couldn't. Maybe different editing would help, definitely less time hopping and more information on the characters. Hoping someone remakes this with clearer overall definition.
8 out of 15 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?3/10
Nothing what i expected.
kpfvhwng21 August 2023
Thought will movie will be about nuclear bomb and how it has been develop meanwhile it was just about him and his problems - to much to boring. 3/10. Almost no physics and technical information just clean biography. With character so important to the modern history- action has been flattened to his family issues and investigations against him. I'm disappointed and for sure I will not watch it again. Other than that was done ok, movie will not stay in my mind for long time. I think to learn something more about this weapon and himself better is to watch a documentary. There ware too much of drama.
12 out of 17 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?9/10
Imagining the unimaginable
danielgroza15 August 2023
Christopher Nolan is a difficult guy to work with. He is a principled filmmaker, despises 3D and avoids CGI as much as possible. Yet his movies are anything but traditional. Throughout his career, he showed an exceptionally masochistic pleasure in challenging himself with complex and ambitious scripts--sometimes too complex and ambitious for his own good. In a way, he is like the title character of his latest biopic "Oppenheimer". I feel like if he and the man himself would have met each other they'd be good friends.

The movie stars Cillian Murphy as the titular Dr. J. Robert Oppenheimer a.k.a. Father of the Atomic Bomb--a title which brought the real Oppenheimer both pride and shame. Murphy is not only a great actor, but also a usual Nolan collaborator yet this is his first starring role--and what a role it is. Not only Murphy resembles the real Oppenheimer to quite a degree, but his performance proves he was long overdue for a starring part--Oscar-caliber performance, check.

In case the three hour runtime is not enough of a hint for you, this movie is not as much about the first Atomic Bombs which devastated the cities of Hiroshima and Nagasaki in Japan as much as it is about the title character himself. It does not start at the Los Alamos Research Facility, rather it arrives at it. First, it shows Oppenheimer as a neurotic mess of a student at Cambridge. He was clumsy with experiments and a loner. At one point, he poisoned his professor's apple with cyanide at the end of class only to wake up alarmingly the next day and rush to the lab in order to prevent anyone from eating it. This goes to show just how easily he would lose control in a moment of anger and despair and how hard his rationale would have to fight to come forward. This is definitely a scary aspect about the man but also one that I find fascinating.

Eventually he would go to Germany to study theoretical physics where he would transform into the genius he is known as today. But his neurotic tendencies never changed. Nolan is fascinated by Oppenheimer himself more than anything Oppenheimer himself achieved technically because he was a difficult guy to understand. "You don't even know what you believe anymore" his Los Alamos colleague and future hydrogen bomb architect Edward Teller (Benny Safdie) tells him in frustration. But Nolan loves these hard-to-pin-down recluses because from a certain point of view, he is one himself and because he loves a challenge. Politically, Oppenheimer leaned to the left, but he never joined any parties--his stances were more sudden bursts rather than focused maneuvers. He would even argue with fellow fifth columnists at the political meetings he attended. Romantically, he cared about his long-suffering wife Kitty (Emily Blunt) despite the fact he couldn't help but cheat on her with an intelligent but self-destructive girl he met at the aforementioned meetings--Jean Tatlock (Florence Pugh). In her, he felt challenged, not scientifically, but with emotional wisdom and he related with her troubled nature. As for the deployment of the Atomic Bomb, he was clearly against, but understood there was no choice and that gave him whatever tiny bit of closure it could.

The bombing itself was never shown but I don't believe it was because it would've been controversial--there is even a scene in which the higher-ups in the U. S. Army discuss which cities to choose as the targets with disturbing detachment. In fact, the reason is the same reason why Nolan avoids using 3D despite the fact his movies are worthy. Because visual spectacle alone reduces the movie to a shell of itself. Things like 3D push the idea that for a blockbuster to be successful it needs to display circus-like amusement, when in fact, if made properly a great blockbuster can be as great as any other artistically ambitious movie. I feel like this is what his whole career is based on--he wants the blockbuster to be taken seriously because it deserves it and he tries to prove it again and again by making his movies more intelligent, methodical and more complex. Sure, sometimes it bites him, but the idea is clear.

So, this is why "Oppenheimer" is great; because the movie itself is like its title character: intelligent, fast-paced, urgent, neurotic and hard to understand. Like other Nolan movies it can get tough to follow with a multitude of characters and cameos ranging from actors like Casey Affleck to Rami Malek. But the stand out support character is Lewis Strauss (Robert Downey Jr.) who plays the politically clever AEC chairman with the same fast-talking mouth like his notorious Tony Stark but without the clever jokes and attitude. He and Oppenheimer don't get along simply because of their nature and the movie bounces back and forth between their point of views, flanking the plot by unraveling certain things and obscuring other. So, yeah, this is a handful of a movie which almost never slows down but you don't want it to. The characters interact efficiently, they speak, they listen, they argue, they clash and they reconcile--it's impossible to be on top of everything.

Bu that's fine, because you don't have to. Most artists--especially the good ones--have a degree of arrogance. Nolan is no exception. He makes his movies complicated because he considers his audience smart enough to get them and if they don't then he simply can't be bothered. He respects the moviegoer as a person who doesn't flinch at every dumbed down blockbuster playing on a weeknight and he always makes sure not to forget to include an element of humanity in his work.

Here, is the conversations between Oppenheimer and Albert Einstein (Tom Conti). It's the only time the movie slows down. Nolan doesn't do that for anybody. We don't really know what they talked about in real life so Nolan decided to imagine the unimaginable and filled the gaps with what he felt they needed to hear from each other. Helluva of a way to pay his respects.
2 out of 4 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?10/10
The best movie of the century ! best bio pick.
devindavidanagama19 August 2023
"Oppenheimer" is a captivating and thought-provoking cinematic masterpiece that delves deep into the life and mind of J. Robert Oppenheimer, the brilliant physicist and key figure behind the development of the atomic bomb. The film brilliantly explores the moral complexities and ethical dilemmas that arose during the Manhattan Project, showcasing Oppenheimer's internal struggle and the weight of his decisions. With stellar performances, meticulous attention to historical accuracy, and evocative storytelling, "Oppenheimer" offers a compelling narrative that invites viewers to reflect on the profound impact of scientific advancements on humanity's trajectory. This movie is a must-watch for history enthusiasts and those interested in the intersection of science, ethics, and human nature.
0 out of 6 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?7/10
Very good but maybe not exceptional
davegras21 August 2023
Here's what I liked. The acting was superb. Cillian Murphy (Who is this guy?) was outstanding. Oscar winning performance. The supporting cast was terrific including Robert Downey Jr. You felt the characters were real. Only Matt Damon's role felt forced. The script was intelligent (for the most part) and it's a good story. Nuclear weapons is admittedly a touchy subject and the movie kept its balance until the last hour when it became a tad one-sided. The short scene making President Truman seem like a bumpkin was disappointing, for example, even though I read that a couple of quotes he said in the movie were true. Still, it made me wonder how historically accurate the movie was. From what I read, Oppenheimer was more flawed than the movie indicates, and I left the theater wondering what kind of man Oppenheimer really was, besides being a competent director and a womanizer. I also thought the use of imagery showing what Oppenheimer was thinking at times was too speculative and overdone. All said, this was a good film which offered a lot. However, it's not Nolan's best movie, in my opinion.
1 out of 2 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?9/10
A memorable biography of a determined and intelligent yet ultimately naive nuclear physicist
TRinzler18 August 2023
The story is told from Oppenheimer's perspective and focuses on key moments from his life and his relationships with those closest to him, making it a biographical account of events. The narrative alternates between a trial in the late 1950s and the development of the atomic (fission) bomb between 1942-45. Nolan uses color when presenting events from Oppenheimer's own perspective, but switches to black & white when recounting them from the perspective of others. He portrays the physicist's mental illness through occasional glimpses of his dreams (or nightmares) and visions.

Unfortunately, the narrative seems to meander aimlessly during the first half hour or so, which recounts his time in academia before the Manhatten project. I found this part of the film somewhat confusing, as Oppenheimer's visions interrupt key events, which are themselves fictionalized for simplicity, as years of his life are inevitably condensed into minutes. This story eventually finds focus and direction when Oppenheimer meets Groves to plan the building of Los Alamos, after which Nolan's masterful storytelling immerses you in the work of the scientists, culminating in the Trinity test in 1945. Being a biography, the film doesn't cover the actual bombings, which are only discussed in a meeting, where the targets were decided. The reminder of the film relates what happened to Oppenheimer after WW2 ended.

Cementing his reputation as an actor's director, Nolan elicites a phenomenal performance from Cillian Murphy as J. Robert Oppenheimer and the supporting cast of a dozen well known actors and actresses are all excellent.

9/10.
1 out of 2 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?10/10
What audiovisual art can do for us if we dare let it
TheVictoriousV26 August 2023
Oppenheimer gave me all that was promised and then some, rocking me to the core and thence leaving my mind racing in a way that no picture has done in many years. Its success will solidify the revitalization of movie theaters -- Nolan has long been one of the strongest advocates of theaters over home streaming, even with his controversial release of Tenet during the pandemic -- and its quality will do the same for audiences, who can't hope for this sort of viewing in the living room unless they have a damn fine set-up. Most importantly, it solidifies that real movies are back on top, as opposed to... well, you know.

Based on 2005's The American Prometheus, the film follows the development of the WWII Manhattan Project through various perspectives, some "subjective" and some "objective", denoted by shifts to black-and-white: the scenes in color show the truth as Oppenheimer (Cillian Murphy in a career-defining performance) sees it and are wholly dramatized; the B/W ones are based more on what's documented in literature and hearing transcripts. It's not entirely linear either, yet there's never any question as to where in the timeline we're at, or who's telling their version of that moment.

The rest of the cast is quite considerable. Figures significant to the Manhattan Project, its judicial aftermath, Oppenheimer's personal life, or all three are played (brilliantly) by the likes of Matt Damon, Robert Downey Jr., Florence Pugh (who holds the honor of being the first actor filmed naked on 70mm IMAX), Emily Blunt, Benny Safdie, Rami Malek, Kenneth Branagh, Jason Clarke, David Dastmalchian, and even Josh Peck if you can believe it. There are also actors that seem to have either been forgotten or laughed out of the movies that Nolan invites us to reconsider; Dane DeHaan, Josh Hartnett, and Alden Ehrenreich deliver some of the most memorable performances in the movie. Also look out for big names within the fields of math and physics -- quantum or otherwise (Oppenheimer meets with Heisenberg, Bohr, and even Einstein, with whom he shares some of his best scenes).

The film has been rightly described as an intimate story about something massive. And in spite of its runtime and even its contents as such ('tis a rather dialogue and character-oriented picture), it is a movie that feels intense at every turn; through snappy editing and seminally used music and sound, Nolan has made a film whose talky, three-hour totality has the same intensity to it as the final act of any of his other productions. There are knowing glances and vital cutaways that will carry even greater weight on a second viewing.

It knows precisely how much to show (with regard to mass destruction) and how much to leave to the imagination of its characters as well as us. One of the most striking moments is one in which a Republican statesman simply advises against dropping the Atomic Bomb on Kyoto. Why? Well, because he and his wife vacationed there one time.

It's been pointed out that this quick exchange is far more effective a demonstration of the evil and callousness of American Imperialism than had they just shown how the Japanese suffered as a result of the Hiroshima-Nagasaki strikes -- something that certain reviewers felt was "missing" here. Similarly, there's a scene of thunderous applause near the end --shortly after JRO sees that he has made annihilation itself -- that has been described as "scarier than any standard violent horror film ", and I tend to agree. Before the bomb itself is even detonated, Nolan manages to give it a sufficiently ominous presence.

Having said that, the primary reason to see this in a movie theater is, indeed, the Trinity launch. This sequence -- the heart-racing build-up, the detonation itself, and the tangible awe and despair that follows -- shook me to my core in a way that art hasn't done since Vishnu knows when.

I thought for a moment that critics might be exaggerating the impact and subsequent dread of this moment, but I am prepared to argue that it is a paragon of audiovisual art and what it can do for us if we dare let it. JRO has a series of visions -- hallucinations of splitting atoms, dying stars, and other images of annihilation that he alone can truly perceive/fathom -- that also justify seeing this film in the largest possible auditorium with the best possible sound system, but that one scene is reason enough.

Regardless, the rest of Oppenheimer is very much "a Christopher Nolan film" -- it is weighty, technically precise, meticulously told, and powerfully scored by Ludwig Göransson -- but the subject matter and the occasional shifts to monochrome have yielded comparisons to the political epics of Oliver Stone. Nolan has long been among those rare filmmakers whose name is enough to draw a crowd, and now, in an age where the slop that used to dominate the rest of the summer movie season is starting to lose people, he gets to make his masterpiece, and we all came to see it. This isn't just the best film of the year; it's one of the most important of its era.

On top of bolstering the return of capital-C cinema (we'll see for how long, given the WGA/SAG strikes), it seems both this film and Barbie made us, the viewers, truly passionate about the art form again. To paraphrase Patrick Willems's Letterboxd review, it's very funny that this, of all things, is a big summer blockbuster. But also quite reassuring.
3 out of 7 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?8/10
Cillian Murphy exceptional in the lead role
csm-7811927 August 2023
This is a superbly made film as one would expect in the hands of Director Christopher Nolan. Cillian Murphy gives an Oscar worthy and completely convincing performance as Oppenheimer and there are strong performances too from the supporting cast - Robert Downey junior and Matt Damon in particular. The films great strengths are firstly how it recreates the wonder and thrill of the underlying science and secondly how it paints such a vivid portrait of the title character. On the negative side it doesn't really appropriately convey the sheer horror of the use of nuclear weapons. It's a long film and personally I'd have liked more of its time to have been used up in that regard but overall it's an accomplished piece of work.
1 out of 1 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?10/10
Mind-blowing epic drama! Kudos to Nolan! 👏👏👏🏆🏆🏆
narenc17 August 2023
Mind-blowing epic drama ever made in the history of this world.

Hatsoff to Nolan for making such an outstanding movie. With Tenet and Dunkirk, honestly I thought he was trending down but with this movie, he made a great comeback. If this doesn't win an Oscar, I'd say the Oscars are not worth standing up for. The direction and editing was extraordinary, not to mention the background score, leave the loud banging aside, it was so mesmerizing that I left the theater with the music ringing in my ears for a day with goosebumps!

I think the movie has made a lot of points of how cruel the world is or humanity in general, science itself is a boon but our civilization makes it look like a curse, and how great Einstein was and the realization that Oppenheimer had towards the end, all beautifully portrayed. In the context of the ongoing war in Ukraine, it depicts how war is an unnecessary evil.

The back to back scenes of present and flashback, it may seem monotonous like we've seen in Memento and yet it was a unique experience, 3 hours of it felt like 1 hour to me honestly, there goes relativity, thanks to Einstein!

Kudos to Nolan 👏👏👏🏆🏆🏆
2 out of 7 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?9/10
How can you live with blood-stained hands?
martinsciaccaluga16 August 2023
Last Sunday, I immersed myself in the darkness of the cinema to experience "Oppenheimer." While on an immense screen, the detonation of a nuclear bomb unfolded, outside, my country (Argentina) convulsed due to the crossroads of choosing its future leader.

But in that cinematic dimness, I delved in like a child with a new toy, without prejudices, but (I won't deny) with high expectations. It's not my habit to pen down such reflections, but when Christopher Nolan unveils a new work, I feel compelled to rush to the theater.

Although my preference usually leans towards original plots, this movie achieved what only a few visual works have managed to do to me: genuine wonder. I left the cinema clouded by astonishment, and as the minutes passed, my obsession to absorb every flash of information, both within and beyond the film, grew in a logarithmic progression, like atomic reactions that release the energy contained in uranium nuclei.

I've fought in vain against the irresistible attraction, for I find myself inexorably drawn to everything surrounding this immersive story.

Your mind is brilliant, the bloody future undeniable and unstoppable. What would you do if a slightly less bloody future depended on your ingenuity? Inevitably withdrawing from the race would probably lead to a worse outcome. I believe these questions are what J. Robert Oppenheimer faced when he was summoned to the development of the Manhattan Project.

Though my question as the minutes ticked away was: How can you live with blood-stained hands?

Perhaps for someone seeking a blast on a giant screen, the movie might seem like mere ClickBait, but if we understand that we live in the world we do due to the repercussions of Hahn and Strassmann's 1939 article on nuclear fission, we will perceive this film as a gem of modern cinema.

It's marvelous to see how the puzzle of history comes together for those of us who didn't live in that time to tell the tale. Germany surrendered, the battles had ended, but a very bloody chapter remained, if not the bloodiest one to be told.

Three hours that pass like a handful of minutes if you're interested in the history and geopolitical context of the era, and a masterpiece deserving of all possible awards, as everything related to the film is worth highlighting.
1 out of 4 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?10/10
An absolute masterclass of filmmaking
tbloutsos24 August 2023
Oppenheimer is a very ambitious film about Robert Oppenheimer's life(mostly about the Manhattan project). My expectations were huge and this film somehow managed to still exceed my expectations. Cillian Murphy delivers an incredible Oscar worthy performance that will keep you gripped throughout the film (which is full of amazing performances with the likes of Robert Downey Jr, Matt Damon,Emily Blunt etc.). It respects the viewer and doesn't spoon feed you,instead jt lets the viewer observe in this slow burn of a movie until it reaches an amazing climax.

Absolutely incredible direction from Christopher Nolan(as expected),a very thought provoking film, I couldn't recommend it more.
2 out of 10 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?2/10
Music, music and more music!
shylalee17 August 2023
Oppenheimer was a huge disappointment for me. There was music throughout the film with absolutely no breathing space at all in between. Utterly disappointed as I went to the cinema with high expectations. The music overshadowed everything in my opinion....even the actors performances...as it was trying to force emotions in every scene through its dramatic undertone. What a shame. I struggled to focus on what was being said as the music was so loud in places and it was all I could hear. I just wished it to stop. Apart from that the film is well shot and has some great performances....even by Matt Damon.

After watching it I remembered Nolan's other film Interstellar which again had music throughout. I don't think I'll be rushing to watch another Nolan film any time soon.
6 out of 12 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?9/10
Physics
aswathysoorya19 August 2023
After watching this, I regretted not continuing science studies. The inner conflict any scientist may face is explained well. The loyalty towards one's country, the amount of time and effort to create a reputation, the amount of time that it takes to destroy, years of worth scientific research and seeing the after effect it will bring, how it affect one's mentality, how hard one can have hatred feeling to another, all these depicted well. The salvation Oppenheimer was looking for may be the same for many. Really great cinematography, amazing background music, good character selection, really great location. It showed a whole new world of Physics. Would love to recommend it to anyone who is interested in Physics and WWII.
1 out of 3 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?8/10
A very solid movie.
fjvthe16 August 2023
I will preface by saying that Christopher Nolan is one of the best (if not the best) filmmakers known to man. The performances of all actors involved, whether it be Cillian Murphy (who was absolutely fantastic in his role as J. Robert Oppenheimer), Emily Blunt, Robert Downey Jr., Matt Damon, and many more. The three hour run time didn't bother me, but it may not be suitable for those with short attention spans because the movie is so dialogue heavy and attentiveness is required to understand what's going on. I don't really have anything negative to say about the movie. I will say that opinions (just like any other movie) will differ vastly due to the movie being considered a "slow burn," which some people like and some who don't.
1 out of 3 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?5/10
Confusing!
Steveco5226 August 2023
Yeah, I got lost a few times in this movie by the continual switching time periods. And had a difficult time understanding some of the dialogue because of the loud soundtrack. I felt it was an hour too long! Excellent acting kept me interested. Robert Downy Jr. Was amazing! The sex scenes were completely unnecessary, added nothing to the story. And in those days, it wasn't graphically presented like this. I guess the writers needed to smut it up to keep up with the times! I would never watch this movie again. The movies that I go to theaters to see, I usually end up watching again and again later on. But this movie I won't do that.
3 out of 3 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?6/10
If you're seeking action, drama and CGI, move on.
richardhayes-4728725 August 2023
I feel somewhat underwhelmed a day after seeing this movie. It's hyped, and I felt myself wanting to enjoy it more. I felt almost as I should enjoy it more, but I found it long, hard work and at times, tough to follow.

This has an ensemble cast, and whilst it's my humble opinion, almost all are wasted. Although 3 hours long, we never get the chance to try and identify with the characters. There's not enough character development and nor do we see anything of worth about how Oppenheimer is 'the way he is'. Emily Blunt portrayed as a functioning alcoholic annoyed me, as this just wasn't the case.

I wanted to see what this bomb did to the world, and understand more about it. We're given nothing about how we split the atom, refine uranium and the like. Absolutely nothing, other than a news excerpt stating that 'we've split the atom', and the next step is an awaiting Trinity test. This annoyed me again.

The Trinity test, a site that I've actually visited, has to be the most anticlimactic on screen explosion I've ever seen. I get that Nolan opted to be CGI free, but you can't fake a nuclear explosion for film with ten barrels of petrol and try and be cute with the sound for likes. It was poor.

However, this is a decent watch overall, but that's all. I'll not see it again until I see it drop onto Netflix.

You'll either love it or hate it I guess.
6 out of 8 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?9/10
Nolan at its Best (almost)
dvlbr23 August 2023
The theatre room was in shock after the lights went on, as I was. I'd surely put this cinematic experience in my top 5. I had so much "fun", not in an amusing way rather in a shocking, emotional one; and I have so much to say about this, as the movie is full with hints and things to analyse, maybe too many things that make the movie too full or on the brink of collapse (that's not the case). We can all agree on the fact that the film was too long or too shallow in action (but not in tension!) as we get very few action sequences in which something is actually going on - with too much exposition that was necessary for the movie to be understood but really still in some parts (but interesting! I'll never call a film boring - this is Christopher Nolan). But I will say that all that exposition and all that building towards the Trinity Test is worth it: I knew what was coming... heart pounding, trembling and freezing hands from anxiety, and I enjoyed every second of it. You can't deny the genius of Nolan, surely not his ability in creating masterpieces. All of that elevated by the amazing score and sound design (a perfect blend really not that common today) that increased my anxiety even more. Surely the film made (and makes) me want to deepen my understanding of quantum physics (not sure if that was the goal of the film... jk). I gotta say, and everyone knows it, that Mr. Cillian Murphy is Oscar-worthy. He is phenomenal. I was him for 3+ hours. I was in his mind. I was there, on the screen, with him. His depiction of J. R. Oppenheimer will stay in my mind for quite some time. And of course the other jewel that stood out, Mr. Downey, that I'm so happy and relieved to finally see in a serious, important, crucial role worth of his caliber. Finally. He really showed what he's about. I'm sure that there are lots of things still to be analysed but I can't get this experience out of my head. I can't seem to think about the flaws but all I see is a great story translated in an amazing cinematic experience, with a crucial message and its warning still echoing in our time. This film definitely made me closer to Nolan as a filmmaker and as a thinking human being.
0 out of 5 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?10/10
Film of the Year! Until (Dune Part 2 Comes out.)
peter-5002922 August 2023
The movie is mind blowing! The cinematography the Way they filmed the movie. The soundtrack is amazing. One of Christopher Nolan's best films ever! It's up there with the Dark Knight and the rest of his Batman trilogy. It makes us the (Viewers!) feel a certain type of way. It makes us feel like Oppenheimer could be a evil person or he was a hero. Or just person trying to help. The world needs to watch this movie. I definitely think this movie deserves all the praise is hands-down one of the best films ever created. I totally recommend this movie go watch Oppenheimer right now! It is a must watch.
0 out of 8 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?9/10
Was the three hours really worth it?
Maxpresley19 August 2023
After I watched this film in the cinema for three hours and then left the hall indescribably, I could only think of one word...Wow!

I hadn't watched a trailer beforehand, of course I knew a little what to expect, but seen in this way, I went into this film rather unbiased. I would now like to tell you how I felt about this film...

The film is really long and for me personally, it was often very difficult to understand. In some places it was rather boring in this respect. The bitter aftertaste was nonetheless driven cleanly into the harbor by Nolan's precision, with spectacular scenes. The music is wonderful, this film has a good cast and is mostly convincing.

The bomb scenes are fantastically staged and the actors do their best. I would particularly like to highlight Robert Downey Jr, who proves here that he can also convince in serious films and as he says himself, this is the best film at the time in which he played. That means something.

I'm also thrilled by Cilian Murphy, who takes on the leading role. He is the perfect man for this position and plays very authentically. Remi Malek, whom we know from Bohemian Rhapsody, shines again and his performance is excellent. The actors I haven't named are of course just as outstanding, as it should be for a film of this level. The shifts in perspective that dominate the film are misleading and distract from the story, threatening understanding. It's an interesting idea, but one that tends to confuse the implementation. We learn a little too little about the person behind Oppenheimer, instead we learn about the development of the atomic bomb. I would have liked to know a little more about him, but I agree with the result to some extent. The film is entertaining, but there could have been a little room for improvement that would have given the film Oppenheimer even more points. The ending strikes a balance with the criticism, as it made me leave the theater fascinated and burdened in equal measure by the impact of the cinematic art and digesting what I had just consumed. The film is a masterpiece and the three hours were well worth it. Oppenheimer tells his story and distributes a message that you can define yourself after looking at the work, certainly after a long time thinking about it. Despite the very difficult storytelling and a few other aspects, I can warmly recommend everyone to see this film and then to think about the topic and deal with it. Very good film, gets 9/10 possible points from me.
0 out of 2 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?5/10
Tedious on several levels
bernie-8419228 August 2023
What has been negatively written before is mostly accurate, so I will concentrate on my greatest annoyances.

Sound editing. When the background music is so loud and obnoxious (drum beats especially) that you can't hear the actors speak, the sound editor must not have been paying attention. An occasional scene like this is okay, but a movie full of scenes where the dialogue is overshadowed is not. Almost the entire movie had the music volume way too high during quiet dialogue. This is a trend in movies and tv and needs to stop. The actors and dialogue are the stars; music is an enhancement. Or, in this case, a very serious distraction.

Film editing. At its most basic, this is a linear story, easy to understand. But the director opts for continuous cuts to the past or future, destroying the current scene and losing the audience's concentration. Why should I have to work so hard to keep all the pieces together due to the unrelenting flashbacks and flash forwards? It end up being a mess. Tedious. It is a straight forward story. Keep it simple. Why did Nolan make it so complicated to follow?

Length. The actual film is about 2 hours and 45 minutes, followed by about 15 minutes of credits. The length didn't bother me, but I felt tighter editing would have helped. The film felt a little sloppy.

Performances were great. Story was great. Costumes and period pieces were super too.
7 out of 10 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?4/10
Just boring.
eddie-2854118 August 2023
Everyone has said it already. Scratchy dialogue that is barely audible sometimes. This is made even worse by incidental & theatrical music that was so overpowering, this made listening to the dialogue even more difficult. Mark Kermode got it right. Pretty much 3 hours of a load of people, mainly men, sitting, talking & discussing politics, & the USA early atomic/hydrogen bomb programme. For the first time in I can't remember the last time I did, I actually fall asleep. I think the cinema that I attended had to crank up the volume so much that the sound quality it then became distorted. Unsure whether this was because they know that the dialogue is so quiet. Personally, I wouldn't bother. I like Christopher Nolan, I really do. He genuinely tries to make interesting films. Excellent acting, well directed & produced, but its a no from me.
10 out of 16 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?6/10
Should be great but is boooooring!
keren31720 August 2023
This should not have been a 3 hour movie.

Amazing cast, great shots, great subject(s), but it is so freaking long and boring that I saw multiple people leave the cinema, and I was seriously considering doing the same.

It's like they tried to touch on everything possible - this guy's life story and mental health, relationships, general questions about the morality of humanity, the horror of the atom, the process of science, the career of politicians, corruption, the cold war, Huber and the persecution of "communists" after (and during) WWII... Really at no point of this project did anyone stop and say, hi, maybe we can't fit EVERYTHING in one movie?? And even if we can, should we??

As it is, this movie should have been a 10 episode series, I would have loved to watch it.

Shoving too much into it made this movie long, exhausting, and not quite hitting the spot on anything. Could have said so much more and be way more emotionally involving with the moral aspect of things, with the personal horror of someone leading such a project... Instead, it feels like it kinda missed the mark on everything.
9 out of 12 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?10/10
Greatest cinematic achievement of Christopher Nolan
heydarniyam20 August 2023
From a scientific point of view, Oppenheimer lacks certain aspects and explanations but given the fact that the movie is not a sci-fi movie ( it's more biographical and historical movie), we could ignore that. I'd also want to point that Oppenheimer has contributed a lot to his domain of study but he was not surely as same level as Niels Böhr, Albert Einstein, Max Born or even Richard Feynman as the movie strived extremely to do in that direction. That side aside, from a cinematic, cinematographic and screen-writing point of view, it's a coherent and well structured movie. The beginning is colossal and symbolic. The moral challenges of Oppenheimer are very well represented and I admire the fact that he's portrayed as a complicated character as most of us are in our routine life but we don't comprehend it that well. The transition between colors and WB is a wise choice from a directorial and cinematic point. This movie has a coherent story and creates a certain amount of suspense, even though most of us already knew how it would end for Oppenheimer and obviously the other people involved. If you are really a cinephile and history lover, that would be a great chance to watch this movie. I believe genuinely that this is Nolan's best work. It doesn't have the complexity as it was the theme of Nolan's movies narratives and that let the audience to perceive the movie in a more simpler, yet smarter way. It is also one of the most aesthetic movies of his filmography and current-era cinema.
2 out of 9 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?10/10
Oppenheimer: A Cinematic Symphony of Action and Emotion
saeed-891-81579215 August 2023
" Oppenheimer" is a breathtaking masterpiece that skillfully combines the elements of action, audio, acting, direction, and scene design into an unforgettable cinematic experience. Directed by the visionary filmmaker, Christopher Nolan, the movie takes audiences on an electrifying journey that weaves together heart-pounding action sequences, immersive audio design, exceptional performances, stunning visuals, and meticulous direction. This review delves into the movie's prowess in each of these crucial areas, showcasing how it harmoniously creates a symphony of emotions and adrenaline.

1. Action: "Oppenheimer" excels in its action sequences, delivering a pulse-pounding experience that keeps viewers on the edge of their seats from start to finish. The Atom bomb explosion was captured too good and viewed super in the film.

2. Audio: The audio design of "Oppenheimer" deserves special accolades for its immersive and evocative quality. The symphonic score, composed by Ludwig Göransson, elevates the movie to a whole new level. It blends perfectly with the on-screen action, accentuating emotional beats and intensifying the adrenaline-pumping moments. Additionally, the sound effects are expertly crafted, creating a dynamic soundscape that draws the audience deeper into the film's world. The combination of the powerful score and well-balanced sound effects makes the audio aspect of the movie a standout feature.

3. Acting: The performances in "Oppenheimer" are nothing short of exceptional. Led by a talented ensemble cast, each actor brings depth and authenticity to their characters. Cillian Murphy shines in the lead role, delivering a captivating portrayal of a conflicted hero torn between duty and personal struggles. The supporting cast, including Robert Downey Jr. And Emily Blunt and Matt Damon and others, deliver standout performances that contribute to the emotional resonance of the narrative. The chemistry among the cast members is palpable, adding further layers to the film's storytelling.

4. Scene Design: The movie's scene design is a visual treat that transports the audience to diverse and imaginative worlds. From sprawling urban landscapes to otherworldly realms, each setting is meticulously crafted to enhance the storytelling. The attention to detail in both practical and digital sets is awe-inspiring, creating a rich tapestry of visual splendor. The scene transitions are seamless and contribute to the overall flow of the film, making it an immersive and cohesive cinematic experience.

5. Direction: Under Christopher Nolan masterful direction, "Oppenheimer" achieves a harmonious blend of action and emotion. The director's vision is evident in every frame, showcasing a keen eye for detail and storytelling finesse. The film's pacing is skillfully managed, allowing both the action-packed moments and the character-driven scenes to breathe. Christopher Nolan demonstrates a strong ability to elicit powerful performances from the cast and brings together all the technical elements to create a cohesive and emotionally resonant cinematic journey.
0 out of 3 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?5/10
Chamber drama with loud music
MMrev16 August 2023
Not bad, but could've been more captivating. Incorporating elements of espionage, a country rivalry in bomb development, and similar plotlines could've enhanced it. As it stands, it's a chamber drama with numerous characters and insufficient intrigue for its 180-minute runtime.

The characters are fine, but I didn't see a reason for IMAX. Even the highly praised explosion didn't impress me.

In other words, the film is worth watching, but it wouldn't make a difference if I watched it at home, and I certainly don't need to see it a second time.

I expect more entertainment from a movie theater, especially considering all the hype, something that enriches me. But I didn't learn anything new. 5 out of 10.
6 out of 9 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?2/10
A insult of Geeta and mis representation
amit93524021 August 2023
This film is a non sense and biased representation of the actual bio graphy of Oppenheimer and it's life events. This film defends Oppenheimer by showing him as he was guilty of invention which was totally opposite of actual facts. He openly feels prouds on making the nuclear bomb in its several interview and news reports. All Americans including him have celebrated that event genocide of people of Japan who killed by those 2 nuclear bombs. With this film has sex scene in which the couple shows Geeta while having sex. Also this film mis represent that Geeta is the core book of inspiration for Oppenheimer in making of nuclear bomb. A pathetic film.
5 out of 11 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?10/10
Spellbinding.
slimbrunette16 August 2023
I didn't know much about Oppenheimer before watching this. I felt that lack of knowledge in the first hour or so but I was never bored by this film. At times totally spellbinding and so tense. I was totally immersed and could see the quality of everything in this film shining through. I don't think it's a film I'll want to watch again and again and I felt exhausted when I left the cinema but I really loved it. Cillian Murphy is unbelievably good. And everyone else was perfect in their roles. I particularly liked Rami Malek in a small but perfectly timed cameo role. Tom Continue as Einstein was also genius.
0 out of 2 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?3/10
Boring
arizdare-152-48402815 August 2023
Love the story but terribly directed and this story was all over the place.

I did not care for some of the acting as it was too melodramatic and pretentious.

Robert Downey Jr should not have been cast in this movie. He was not credible and extremely boring.

The worst part was the interrogation of Oppenheimer and the incredible pretentious portrayal of his Nazi association. It was representative of the current President administration of Biden and his weaponized of the DOJ. Which, BTW is an insult of every intelligent human being. Kinda like this movie!

I actually started nodding out for a bit.

The greatest waste of almost 3hours...best part was the butter popcorn.

Save your $ and wait for TV.
7 out of 15 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?9/10
Incredible project
astro_0072219 August 2023
Masterpiece and unbelievable acting from all of the cast specially robert dawney jr and cillian murphy the acting is from another world the director is genius the scenes the picture was really amazing and unique overall I recommend to watch this at the cinema it's another experience you all should try. I want also talk about the many feelings that cillian murphy showed to me and his character as dr oppenheimer it was avery difficult,different and hard character to play he is unbelievable actor he shared with us many many of feelings and i think this movie will life for a very long time and will be one of the best historical movies we ever had..
0 out of 2 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?10/10
Delivered, as promised
johneegr-4808328 August 2023
A truly exceptional film composed of equally exceptional components. Great storyline & linkage, quality performances, ethically daunting and disturbing for all the right causes, with powerful scenes that deliver at all levels. On top of all, Nolan's unique directing, scenography and soundtracks set the bar high as f*, as usual. The movie highlights the ever lasting dilemmas of our society relating to personal choices, politics and war, weapons of mass distruction and the real possibility of humanity's entire existence hanging on a thread. I only hope that its prophetically placed ending won't come to pass.
0 out of 0 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?8/10
Nolan should be proud of creating a masterpiece
tnhgwndr26 August 2023
And it is not Oppenheimer... it is Interstellar. I feel like he (Nolan) already created his masterpiece. Dont get me wrong - Oppenheimer is a spectalular journey and it will take you places. It is well paced, well written journey... an adventure for the young folk. You get some stunning visuals which are so simple, some personal drama which is boring (sorry) and not enough action which is great for about 2 minutes.

The actors (the majority) did an excellent job Robert Downey Jr., Murphy and Damon. Wow! They carry the movie. Murphy is dramatic and sensational but in my mind Downey steals the show as Lewis Strauss.

See it! Feel it! Make a mind of Your own!

I rate it 8/10 (just slightly above Dunkirk)
0 out of 4 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?9/10
An Effectively Abstract and Introspective Look at the Man Who Invented the Atomic Bomb
ejmalek29 August 2023
July 21st, 2023 will no doubt go down as one of the most important dates in cinema history. Not only were two of the most highly anticipated movies of the year released, but also they were critical and commercial successes. One was "Barbie," and the other was "Oppenheimer." The latter directed by Christopher Nolan is an effectively abstract and introspective look at the man who invented the atomic bomb.

"Oppenheimer" follows the career of theoretical physicist J. Robert Oppenheimer (played by Cillian Murphy). It focuses on his studies, direction of the Manhattan Project, and fall from grace due to the 1954 security hearing.

Because I run a book review website first and foremost, I have to point out that "Oppenheimer" is based on the 2005 biography "American Prometheus: The Triumph and Tragedy of J. Robert Oppenheimer" by Kai Bird and Martin J. Sherwin. I haven't read the book, but with the popularity of the film being as powerful as an atomic bomb right now, I will get my hands on it to see if it captures the spirit of the biography. This would be especially true if the movie gets nominated for and wins Best Adapted Screenplay at next year's Oscars.

I have seen plenty of Christopher Nolan films over the years, both in the movie theater and at home. In fact, "Oppenheimer" was the fourth flick I've seen of his in the former. Seeing it on the big screen really enhanced the Nolan touch on the cinematography and the sound.

For those who don't know, Nolan has red-green color blindness. As a result, he can't see those particular colors. This explains why his films tend to be blue and yellow heavy. In "Oppenheimer," those hues are prominent along with orange during the atomic bomb sequences as well as brown, tan, and white. On top of that, parts of the movie are shot in black and white to represent the stark reality of Oppenheimer's situation when Lewis Strauss (played by Robert Downey Jr.) is in the Senate hearings for his confirmation as Secretary of Commerce in the Eisenhower administration, and he is asked about the former's communist ties. The events that take place prior are in color to show how layered the famous physicist and the events leading up to the atomic bomb were. Nolan did this deliberately to demonstrate objective and subjective perspectives, and this is all done well. The switches between black-and-white and color also help to keep viewers interested in the three-hour movie.

Another Nolanism is the sound. Usually, that tends to be prominent in his flicks, especially to accentuate certain scenes. However, depending on the movie theater, that sound can be abrasive. I remember watching his last historical drama "Dunkirk" and getting very angry because the bomb sound effect was very loud and repetitive. Granted, they were necessary because it was about the famous British retreat during World War II, and ticking noise used indicated that something was going to happen. With "Oppenheimer," the sound is better mixed, yet prominent when it needs to be. For example, during important scenes, the string-based score composed by Ludwig Göransson swells up, but the dialogue is not drowned out. Also, sound effects are more varied. Some include noises for uranium detection and the sound of silence followed by several powerful explosions when the Trinity Test takes place.

Nolan's screenplay is just as abstract as the aspects previously discussed. The film has a non-linear structure with the framework being Strauss's Senate confirmation hearings. While the jumps can be weird at times, this is well executed. When the aforementioned hearing asks Strauss about a specific thing, the movie would then show the kangaroo court inquiring about something similar to Oppenheimer, and then displaying the events and how they unfold through the latter's eyes. The screenplay is also layered in how it portrays the titular character. While Oppenheimer is seen as a hero to many, his left-leaning views threatened to ruin his career during the height of the Red Scare in the 1950s. In addition, while he can be charming, he was a womanizer despite being married to his wife Kitty (played by Emily Blunt), and he tried to poison his physics teacher while at Cambridge.

Finally, there's a running theme about consequences. It demonstrates how various characters either don't fully realize them, or they don't want to think about them. This makes sense. After all, dropping the atomic bomb is part of one of the most famous philosophical questions ever. When the people involved in the Manhattan Project celebrate the atomic bombs dropping in Japan, Oppenheimer gives a speech about this achievement. During said speech, he envisions one woman experiencing the initial effects of the explosion with her skin getting peeled off. He clearly looks shaken up, but in the end, he decides to brush that off and fully embrace the celebration. This helps to explain why the film omits the Japanese perspective. Oppenheimer is not a bad person for not taking that into account. It's that if he starts to think about that, it becomes too much for him. He even talks about having blood on his hands during a tense scene with President Harry Truman (played by Gary Oldman). At the same time, that doesn't make it any better, and the movie is aware of that.

Lastly, I have to talk about the performances. Many act well in the flick, but viewers will ultimately remember two of them: Robert Downey Jr. And Cillian Murphy. Downey plays Lewis Strauss, who was the head of the U. S. Atomic Energy Commission that Oppenheimer was a part of. He plays the character with intelligence and spite. The latter comes out during the scenes between Strauss and Oppenheimer after it was revealed that the Soviet Union got their hands on the hydrogen bomb. Through Downey's performance, Strauss is also petty, especially once it's revealed how he was involved in the kangaroo court that questioned Oppenheimer when his security clearance got revoked. Downey is the perfect actor to play Strauss because he spent years playing Ironman - a superhero who can be just as selfish and vengeful as well.

And then, there's Murphy who plays the title character. He brings charm and thoughtfulness to Oppenheimer that makes viewers want to root for him, while acknowledging that he was no angel. The camera loves to do close-ups on Murphy's boney and pondering face. This is especially true with the final shot of the film. And it has every right to; the guy resembles the real-life Oppenheimer. Speaking of his face, Murphy has one that allows him to play characters of any age and still make them believable. In the flick, he plays Oppenheimer in his 20s to his 50s, and all of that was effectively accomplished with different hair styles and body languages. When the character is at Cambridge, he is agitated and impulsive through Murphy's performance. As he ages, his body language becomes more confident and relaxed yet with some anxiety. I wouldn't be shocked in the slightest if the actor gets nominated and wins for Best Actor at next year's Oscars.

In summary, "Oppenheimer" is a thoughtful and abstract movie about the theoretical physicist who invented the atomic bomb. The choices that Nolan, Downey, and Murphy make certainly enhance the story of J. Robert Oppenheimer. I would recommend this to those who love historical dramas, especially the ones that are based on nonfiction books, learning about World War II, and stories involving the atomic bombs. Along with "Barbie," this flick deserves all the praise and hype it got.
0 out of 0 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?9/10
Another Gem in Nolan's Crown..
saikatsamanta22 August 2023
Christopher Nolan's first biopic sheds light on the life of 'The Father of Atomic Bomb', J Robert Oppenheimer, an Incredibly complex individual whose obsession with breaking new grounds in the field of Quantum Physics led him to the creation of Atom Bomb and the horrible realization that he gave Humanity the Weapon to Destroy itself. Through three different timelines, we study Oppenheimer's rise in the scientific community, his fractured relationships, the rat race against Nazi Germany to create World's first Atomic Bomb, and the conspiracy against him to silence his call for de-escalation of arms race. Once again Nolan has made a Technical Masterpiece, from editing, cinematography, practical effects and sound design and with a stellar cast of incredible actors. This 3 hour long dialogue heavy film with hardly any action, just flies by maintaining a fierce intensity and gravitas. Cillian Murphy and Robert Downey Jr give career best performances with so many incredible supporting acts. Another Crown Jewel in Nolan's repertoire.
0 out of 3 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?8/10
Near Perfect
daniel6day17 August 2023
Overall a fantastic film, with excellent writing and direction. My main issue lies with its pacing. The events of the story are placed in a none-linear fashion. It's a film that demends your full attention (and probably a couple rewatches), which becomes challenging when you consider its 3 hour-long runtime. Not helping is the fact that for a large part of the film some characters got mixed in my head, however that might be because English isn't my native language, so my attention is split between the actor's face and the subtitles... Most of this review is negative, and I want to clarify that I did really enjoy the film, I just don't think I have anything new to say about the positives. It's well written, acted, directed and edited. This is a strong recommendation.
2 out of 3 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?7/10
Why is this such a hit?
Sy-421 August 2023
I had high hopes for this movie going in. I love all of Nolan's other movies, and I actually worked as a scientist at Los Alamos for several years (many years after the Manhattan project), and so I'm very familiar with the underlying physics, the New Mexico landscape, and the constant tension between scientific research and security concerns. If anyone was going to enjoy this movie, it was me!

And to be fair, I did basically enjoy it, mostly. Seeing a story I thought I knew fairly well brought to life, including many extra details that I didn't know about, was definitely interesting. The acting is undoubtedly top notch. But is it a Great Movie? Well, no.

The main issue here is that the central thread that the movie hangs on is the meeting to determine whether Oppenheimer's security clearance should be renewed. A secondary thread is the review as to whether Strauss should be appointed commerce secretary. Both of these threads are essentially courtroom dramas with a lot of talking back and forth, which can be pretty dry. But more importantly, the stakes don't feel that high (it's not life or death), and the arguments for and against the people concerned are not that interesting. I get that the movie uses these things as framing devices to cover a lot of more interesting topics, in the form of flashbacks, but it just feels like the balance is off. There's just way too much time spent in the courtroom, especially towards the end of the three hours, and the rest of the content feels fragmented and rushed.

And the famous Trinity test explosion scene that doesn't use any CGI? Yeah, it shows, and not in a good way.

In conclusion, an interesting study of an interesting guy, well acted, and nicely shot. But a bit unfocused and probably 30 minutes too long. 7/10, though I might have given it 8/10 I didn't feel it was so over-rated...
3 out of 6 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?5/10
I had high hopes...
ZinQ16 August 2023
It turned into 2.95 hours of nothing much at all, and 5 mins of boom. No Enola Gay or Boxcar, no evidence of any harm it did, only related in conversation. The whole film past by, pretty much in a blur, I can honestly say, I was totally underwhelmed. I will not be watching it again at any future date. It will go down in my memory as completely forgettable. Some have called it complicated, how? When we left the cinema, my husband said, wow! At what I asked him? Really and truly I had looked forward to this film for a while, and while there is no doubt, there was some really good acting, I mean Robert Downey Jr not playing himself, who knew? All in all, I think I may have enjoyed Barbie more and I worked in science.
3 out of 5 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?10/10
Christopher Nolan's Magnum Opus.
farvezafridi24 August 2023
In possibly his greatest work yet, Christopher Nolan makes his audience feel the crushing weight of Prometheus' rock. This film is a marvelous achievement in the genre of biopics. With gorgeous cinematography, beautifully fleshed out characters and impeccable performances from every single actor involved, Oppenheimer is a love letter to the art of filmmaking and storytelling.

I have watched this movie 4 times. Thrice in IMAX Dual Laser, and once in a standard showing. This movie demands that you experience it in the loudest and largest screen you have access to. Hoyte Van Hoytema's shots either immerse you in the world of the story, or in Oppenheimer's thoughts or visions. Either way, the immersion aspect of this film is only rivalled by the works of Denis Villeneuve or James Cameron.

While several other reviews will give you the meat and potatoes of this film, I will go over the things that I liked about this movie that are quite understated.

The sound design in this movie is utterly incredible. It uses silence and the score in the most effective manner I have seen in any film so far. Unlike Tenet, I found the dialogue mixing perfectly adequate. The way the explosions and visualizations of the quantum world are felt were indescribable though. But let's talk about those two things.

Nolan avoids the use of CGI in this entire film, resorting to clever VFX and practical effects. Which adds a lot of depth and beauty to the visualizations of the quantum world and space. The way the atoms move, electrons revolve rapidly and nuclear chain reactions feel crushing, it's addictive to watch. It feels terribly real and tangible. There are filmmakers on YouTube that have broken down how the visualizations were done. It is very clever.

Now to the score- Ludwig Göransson proves he is the only man for the job. The job of filling the massive shoes left behind by Hans Zimmer. The skill and precision of the violinists are absolutely pushed to the limit and Ludwig contextualizes their effort with shimmering synths. The horns dance in the score with the fluid-like movement of solar flares. Sometimes they feel warm, sometimes they feel like a nuclear bomb. Which is sort of the point I believe. Two of the most memorable points in the score are during the Trinity test and the final moments of the film.

I am not a film student. Just a musician and a lover of good movies. Therefore based on my personal and limited experience, this film was a resounding and touching achievement. I sincerely thank Nolan for bringing the story of the American Prometheus to life. The movie and its score will be fondly consumed by myself over the coming years for sure.
2 out of 8 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?8/10
An amazing and refreshing movie, that is a bit too long.
BadFilmTastes18 August 2023
I know this is a late review, but since Oppenheimer is still in the theaters, I decided to write about it.

Oppenheimer is refreshing in a sense that, while a big chunk of the film is about politics, the movie itself is not political. That makes watching the movie really immersive, because nothing drags you back to our current reality while you are sitting in the theater.

The casting and the performances are phenomenal, the two big standouts are Cillian Murphy (J. Robert Oppenheimer) and Emily Blunt (Kitty Oppenheimer). Murphy's portrayal of Oppenheimer really reflects the contrast between the two conflicting parts of the protagonists personality; the cold scientist and the humane man that Oppenheimer. Blunt on the other hand shows the viewer the undeniable inner strength of her character.

The biggest problem with the film is it's runtime and pacing. Three hours is, at least in my opinion, too long for a film that is such a slow burner.
0 out of 1 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?10/10
As strong as Nolan movies as scary as Murphy acting skills
bakerakram17 August 2023
Biographical films are usually boring and makes you feel as if the hand of the clock does not move while watching it but with Oppenheimer movie on the contrary I felt exited and time flies , while the testing of the bomb I decided to rate it ten out of ten.. Oppenheimer ranked second in the biographical films after schindler's list .. Some small and accurate details caught my attention, made me realize how much effort Christopher Nolan made, but I do not want to burn the movie, in addition to the acting of Cillian Murphy, who played the character more than Oppenheimer himself, and there is the wonderful music that helped in the plot of the movie and the sounds of bombs that made the cinema dazzle.
2 out of 4 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?7/10
Mostly great but strange pacing
arenbilover17 August 2023
The first half or so of the movie has a strangely energetic and frenetic pace between scenes of what is felt like important dialogues, with an almost constant super-dramatic movie score. It's like an intense thriller movie with flickering changes between important dialogues that I felt could have been complimented better by a slower pace.

I had zero issues with the acting or most of the actual scenes, but I felt it was all packed very tight and I'm sorry to say that I couldn't for whatever reason cognize and digest all of the information.

First half of the movie felt like a constant tap of running water of information, it was in tandem with the intense music that made me feel a bit exhausted.

I also think Nolan has a tendency of trying to make many scenes appear witty and intelligent, this can seem forced to me sometimes.

I generally liked and respected everything else.

Yet I had a sense of not really knowing why Oppenheimer was such an important figure in the world of physics. The movie makes it seem like Oppenheimer was unusually interested in the possibilities of quantum physics for an american, but what were his actual contributions to the field? I don't know.

Without spoiling anything, I loved the little twist in the end. The acting and the story as a whole was despite the perceived weaknesses still engaging emotionally and intellectually.
1 out of 1 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?10/10
A biopic for all seasons
profebc18 August 2023
A real movie for theaters. Worth it in IMAX. The sound design & cinematography match the story to medium in astonishing ways.

As for editing, it will be interesting to see how the Academy votes; Nolan gets back to his Memento roots. Audiences uncomfortable with non-linear plots might want to see Barbie instead.

The casting of Robert Downey feels like a timely Marvel jab (Scorsese will be pleased). Can't say too much about the character Lewis Strauss without spoiling it, but let me just say, he would no doubt facilitate many contracts for Stark Enterprises.

No doubt detractors will point out that the end of the world used to take no more than 2 & 1\2 hours running time in good old fashioned disaster movie. As date movies go, Oppenheimer is probably pretty good birth control because the sex scenes have consequences. People will probably want to talk after seeing this movie, and it will unlikely be foreplay.

As a biopic, Oppenheimer is less egregious than many. It builds well on the documentary The Day After Trinity.
0 out of 2 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?9/10
just a test
b-08932-5421316 August 2023
I'm still collecting my thoughts after experiencing this film, Cillian Murphy might as well start clearing a space on his mantle for the Best Actor Oscar.

This film is a masterclass in weaving narratives and different time periods while exploring the profound depths of a man whose actions altered the world's trajectory forever, for better or worse. Nolan brings us into the complexities of Oppenheimer, and all the moral conflicts stirring within him.

Murphy's portrayal is so riveting that the long run-time became an afterthought. Robert Downey Jr also offers a great performance and Nolan's push and pull with how he uses sound design throughout is the cherry on top.

Some viewers might need a brief refresher on WWII and Cold War history, but any film lover should be happy to willingly lose themselves in this film for hours on end.
3 out of 5 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?3/10
Wait to see it on cable
strndll22 August 2023
If you are completely unfamiliar with the life of Oppenheimer, it's interesting. But if you've read a biography or two, it's not completely accurate, but still just as depressing.

The acting is good. I think I saw an adult version of every child actor from the 1980s in supporting roles.

Also, if you were ready to shell out the money just for a big screen experience, other than one detonation, it's mostly character shots which are fine for a small screen.

Also, if you have a problem with gratuitous nudity ... there's that.

"Go for the physics, stay for the boobs!" ... said no one ever.

If you're a physics teacher, don't take your students.

So, basically, it's about an hour's worth of depressing storyline stretched out over 3 hours.

If I'd known what I know now, I'd have waited until it came out on cable.
7 out of 10 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?10/10
Masterpiece of pure filmmaking
rspasari-123 August 2023
The most perfect example of "show, don't tell" in a movie that is basically dialogue. But the way it shows the main characters, the amazing camera work, editing, sound design, music...it all fits perfectly to put us in the moment that the characters are living.

On top of that , the absolute dominion over the timeline, jumping back and forth in time, demonstrates the way Nolan is the master of cinematic narrative.

Fortunately I watched it on an IMAX screen and I can tell it's exactly the way was meant to be seen.

It might be underwhelming if you're expecting big "fireworks", but the emotional roller coaster of each moment of the film totally makes up for the lack of explosions. And even "the big one" is shot in a way that is much more powerful than any regular "boom".

Overall it's an incredible biopic, political thriller and human drama as it can be.

Every film fan should watch this movie at least once in the biggest screen with the best sound available.

A true modern masterpiece.
1 out of 8 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?8/10
The difference between a geek and a scientist lies in imagination, but what sets them apart the most is the perseverance in conducting experiments.
noshouse23 August 2023
Unlike movies about scientists like Edison and Tesla, Oppenheimer is all about determination to carry out expected experiments in chemistry. Of course, the director's approach adds rhythm and current events to what used to be dull scientific experiments. But my favorite part is the imaginative explosion scenes, truly mind-blowing. It reminds me of when I was searching for answers, why people in space know it's a vacuum even though they've never been there. That led to the design of space suits. True scientific deduction, without imagination, you just wouldn't think of it. But scientists can never figure out why they always end up being exploited by the bad guys.
0 out of 3 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?10/10
OPPENHEIMER - THE FILM OF THE CENTURY !!
avengingrahul19 August 2023
No spoilers here, just writing about how I feel about Oppenheimer.

No other movie has ever made me feel like OPPENHEIMER did. I watched it with my mother in an IMAX theater. She did not know much about the characters and the history, but she was still awed by it. It was the most HORRIFYINGLY AMAZING experience I have ever had in a movie theater. I just don't care about it's massive 3hr runtime, as soon as the movie ended, I wanted to buy another ticket and watch it all over again. This is one of those movies that stick with you, and I assure you, after watching it, you will keep thinking about it until your brain rots. The movie is incredibly fast paced for a 3hr biopic, it's not for everyone though. Don't go to the theater expecting action sequences, this movie is kind of an analysis of the titular character J. Robert Oppenheimer. It is probably the most important film ever made on probably the most important man of all time. The score by Goransson is absolutely amazing and elevates even normal scenes to exceptional ones. I can't believe a biopic has the most intense countdown scene ever featured in movies, even when we know what's going to happen. The emotions I felt during the movie can't be described in words. The cinematography(by the incredible Hoyte van Hoytema), visuals(no CGI !!!) and dialogues("They won't fear it until they understand it, and they won't understand it until they've used it." and of course the iconic "Now I am become death, the destroyer of worlds") are out of this world. I just can't praise Christopher Nolan enough. He is just the best. No amount of praise can do justice to the performance of the huge cast- Cillian Murphy, Robert Downey Jr., Matt Damon, Florence Pugh, Emily Blunt, Gary Oldman (what a cameo !!), Rami Malek....etc. If you have interest in science and the history of WW2, please go and watch it. It is absolutely worth your time. Here's to OPPENHEIMER, THE GREATEST MOVIE EVER MADE (it's my personal opinion, take it with a grain of salt) - SALUD !!

P. S - Watch out for an absolutely bone chilling ending that may haunt you forever !!
0 out of 2 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?8/10
Very Powerful
royniloykumar21 August 2023
Powerful film as it has incredible performances from all the cast members (Cillian Murphy and RDJ standouts). Gripping storyline and screenplay and concise in details. It could've been 10 to 15 minutes shorter as there were some scenes which were a bit too dragged or were unnecessary for the story's focus. Powerful cameos by Casey Affleck and Rami Malek ( watch out for the court room scene). The villain might shock you in some extent. The actor that portrays Einstein does a wonderful job even though he didn't have too many dialogues. Is it better than Barbie? Well they are two completely different films so it's difficult to judge them together. Overall this is a film which you shouldn't miss out on: with in the cinemas or once it comes digitally.
0 out of 3 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?10/10
A Great Director Explores How Great Men Fall
andrewelgert25 August 2023
What happens to a man after he has made his finest achievements? How does he react to being sidelined when his usefulness to those in power runs thin? If you're expecting Oppenheimer to be another Nolan high-concept premise, these two questions are as close as you'll get; what you'll get instead is perhaps Nolan's first masterpiece.

We are told the answer to our two questions within a minute of the film's opening: Prometheus was a god who gave mankind the gift of fire, and the rest of the pantheon punished him by having him tortured for eternity. From there, we settle into the twin dramas of the film: a behind-closed-doors kangaroo court meant to strip J Robert Oppenheimer of his security clearance, and a Senate confirmation hearing for Lewis Strauss (pronounced "straws"), former Atomic Energy Commissioner whom President Eisenhower has nominated to be US Commerce Secretary.

Throughout the film, we see Oppenheimer's brilliance at physics, where he can "hear the music" of the algebra and visualize the extremely strange phenomena underlying our universe; we see his associations with Leftist figures, from trade unionists to outright communists (though he seems to disavow the latter); we see him as a gifted leader who recruits and organizes the greatest physicists and engineers of his generation to embark upon a quest to build the ultimate weapon; and we see him as a man with a broken personal life who is serially unfaithful to his alcoholic wife and even hands over his children to friends so he can focus on his work. These four facets of his life are interesting, certainly. The scenes leading up to the Trinity test in particular could stand on their own as a short film. The post-test scenes are inspired film-making, particularly a quasi-horror scene where Oppenheimer must give a jingoistic speech to the Manhattan Project team after the bombing of Hiroshima, yet he can't quite shut down his imagination of the Bomb's effects. But it would be a mistake to see these threads as the central narrative. Nolan shows them to us to support the corrupted courtroom dramas playing out for Strauss and Oppenheimer, and to draw those two paths toward an intersection.

Downey, Murphy & Emily Blunt deliver almost haunting performances that capture your attention. I also loved Matt Damon's portray of Leslie Groves, David Krumholtz as physicist & Oppenheimer's close friend Isador Rabi and Florence Pugh as Oppenheimer's deranged communist mistress Jean Tatlock. I wouldn't be surprised to see Oppenheimer score Oscar nominations for best actor and both of the supporting categories.

Early in the film, Neil's Bohr, the great physicist and Oppenheimer's mentor, suggests Oppenheimer must excel at mathematics, that he must "hear the music." Göransson's score perfectly captures this, with cues for different situations and people, but always with a hint of Oppenheimer. Some have criticized the nearly omnipresent score, but I would argue it serves the narrative that Oppenheimer always at least being distracted by the music he hears, and that this may simultaneously be a source of his indomitable strength and extreme weakness.

The non-linear editing Nolan is known for has been perfected in this film. While the list of names of the physicists can sometimes be overwhelming, the editing itself is terrific. Despite the continual jumps among the various settings, I was able to piece together what was happening, and when.

By the film's conclusion, we have explored the two questions I posed at start for Oppenheimer, Strauss and even (briefly) Einstein. Oppenheimer, true to the Greek mythological prologue, must spend his days tormented by his greatest achievement resting in the hands of those wholly unable to match his own abilities or intellect.

I highly recommend this film.
1 out of 6 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?10/10
This is cinema
TheDanishMovie-Nerd25 August 2023
"Oppenheimer," Christopher Nolan's latest film delving into the creation of the atom bomb, is without a doubt his most exceptional work in years. With a cast including Cillian Murphy, Robert Downey Jr., Matt Damon, and more, the film does not simply tread well-known historical territory; it elevates it to a realm of emotional intensity and moral complexity.

The cinematography is nothing short of astounding, capturing the era's somber tone and the urgency of the scientific pursuit. Paired with a fantastic score and impactful sound design, the audio-visual experience feels immersive and authentically represents the seriousness of the subject matter.

However, where "Oppenheimer" truly shines is in its character portrayals, especially the emotionally charged and realistically strong hero-villain arc. This is seen in the sublime performances of RDJ and Cillian Murphy, who artfully paint a relationship reminiscent of Salieri and Mozart in "Amadeus." Their portrayal breathes life into the characters and ensures that the movie's strongest aspect lies in its humanity.

Seeing this film in a cinema is not just recommended but essential, as home viewing could never do justice to the intricate details and profound emotional impact. It's been a couple of days since I saw the movie, and it's still lodged in my mind, a testament to how engagingly the film presents the tough dilemmas it portrays.

In conclusion, "Oppenheimer" is more than a history lesson; it's a cinematic experience that is not only visually stunning but resonates on a deeply emotional level. A must-watch, this film stands as a testament to Nolan's visionary talent and the power of cinema to challenge, inspire, and haunt the viewer long after the credits roll.
1 out of 7 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?9/10
Hard to shake off the darkness in this historical film!
MAXIMUS_74728 August 2023
Introduction, This is the story of the American scientist J. Robert Oppenheimer and his role in the development of the atomic bomb. I would describe this as a visual masterpiece, with brilliant acting and a protracted storytelling. The movie is directed by Christopher Nolan, who I think can call himself a living legend at this point.

Acting, If we start with the acting. The Nolans have a unique ability to choose the right actors and get the best out of them. All I can say is that the cast of "Oppenheimer" is impressive. The role of J. Robert Oppenheimer is portrayed by the Irish actor Cillian Murphy. Murphy exceeds all expectations, his intense gaze and a slightly manic and nervous movement pattern results in us as viewers gaining a greater understanding of Oppenheimer's character. Downey, Jr, Matt Damon and Emily Blunt all give an outstanding acting effort that makes us as viewers engulfed in a world of science and politics.

Visual effect, Now for the visuals. Nolan has a unique flair for visually exciting imagery, this film is no exception. The idea of showing the film in color when it is from Oppenheimer's point of view and in black and white when it is from the perspective of his antagonist, the head of the AEC (Robert Downey Jr), is absolutely phenomenal.

"No matter how sophisticated your CGI is, if it's been created from non-physical elements and you haven't shot with the camera, it will feel animated."


Nolan's resistance to using CGI creates new possibilities and makes us viewers feel emotions never felt before. The movie feels more genuine and raw.

Music, It is the Swedish composer Ludwig Göransson who composed the music in the film. Nolan's only requirement was to base the music on the violin, from there Göransson had the power to compost his interpretation of Oppenheimer and what a success it was! The violins shift between a beautiful and romantic tone to a frenetic and manic sound in a millisecond. The violin as an instrument manages to describe Oppenheimer's character in a unique way, as he can switch between the two emotions in the space of a second. And one side driven by his creation and striving to create, but on the other side, the anxiety of what he actually managed to accomplish and the consequences of that.

"Now I am become Death, the destroyer of worlds."


Running time, The film is three hours long, a seemingly long running time. But Christopher Nolan's ability to constantly deliver quick clips results in his viewers never get bored as time flies. I argue that Nolan uses the running time carefully and proves once again that he has earned his reputation for always managing to tie up the ending in an incredibly neat way.

Conclusion, Christopher Nolan knows how to raise the temperature in a scene, indeed in an entire movie. But he does not use the simplest tricks, he drills into Oppenheimer's psyche and morals and also tells the story of how Robert Oppenheimer is elevated and then displaced in a post-war USA. Oppenheimer is a movie with brilliant acting, amazing visual effects and outstanding soundtrack. A lot of the negative reviews concern the truthfulness of the film. Many argue that the film is not 100 procent accurate to what really happened. Perhaps there is some truth in this. Perhaps Nolan took a few too many artistic liberties. But I think it is important to remember that it is not a factual report, but a film that touches on a real event, a big difference. Of course, creative licence had to be taken at points, to make a watchable film that we should all be able to appreciate at cinemas. This does not mean that the film is trash, on the contrary, I claim that it is an art to combine real history with hip scenography and artistic freedom.
2 out of 3 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?One of the best movies ever made
spinferno23 August 2023
This movie hits all the spots, whether the cinematic effect or the plot, it's just very engaging and a thrill for everyone to watch. It's a very unique film because this is not the type of movie Christopher Nolan would make, making it even more curious to watch.

Oppenheimer is a Drama/Thriller genre and is 3 hours long. As 3 hours seems like a long time, it goes by very quickly. This movie shows many important subjects such as the study of society and the study of characters shown in the movie such as Lewis Strauss. Lastly, Oppenheimer does not use many CGI, making many actions shown very realistic, even the bomb.
0 out of 7 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?10/10
Must see instant classic
nunocordeiro23 August 2023
It belongs on the top 20 of most movie lovers. Pure story telling brilliancy in editing, dialogue, acting (in particular by Robert Downey Jr. And Cillian Murphy, the latter one being an almost guaranteed academy award), musical score, and directing.

There's a lot of characters and it can be confusing if you are not a nerd who kind of knows the background already. But that also adds to the replay value. I don't remember having this vivid immediate feeling that I need to rewatch a movie soonish, ever since I first watched T2.

The characters are deep and relatable, without being boring or overwhelming.

It's a masterpiece. Not wanting to offer any spoilers, the greatest disservice goes to the villain - a complicated man who also had plenty of qualities, not mentioned in the movie. The villain serves the story well, in Hollywood fashion, and remains mostly loyal to the facts.

I saw it in IMAX, in the middle of the room. And let me tell you - that's how you should see it!
1 out of 8 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?5/10
Boring, Hour too long
deroxybox21 August 2023
What to say about Oppenheiemer? Its long, and kinda boring. Lets start with downs of the movie. As always, Nolan does his thing with non-linear story telling. If he told us which year it is at what point, maybe you would feel more involved into it. This way we have no way of telling other than haircuts and real life events whera are we exactly. This way we dont know are they racing against the clock to make the bomb or do they have time to party like its 1999? Although performances are really good (Robert Downey JR. And Murphy), but that part of the movie is really not that interesting. I expected more from the bomb to be honest. They hyped it in promo but its not that eciting when you see it on big screen.

Ok, now Actors- all good, cream de la cream of Hollywood. Maybe Emily Blunt is not that great as in it as it was told but ok all the same- plus, Black widows boobies are there- Noice! Anyway, thats it- ok movie, kinda boring 5/10.
11 out of 15 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?10/10
Best Film of the Year
aipsun26 August 2023
J. Robert Oppenheimer is an extraordinary and famous figure who led the controversial "Manhattan Project" and this time he is shown so boldly in a biopic. Based on the 2005 biography "American Prometheus" by Kai Bird and Martin J. Sherwin, Oppenheimer is a testament to hard work, dedication and consistency. With more epic and historical scale than his previous works, Christopher Nolan presents cinematic perfection in terms of directing, screenwriting, visual effects, cinematography, casting, and music scoring. Cillian Murphy and Robert Downey Jr. Delivers a career-defining performance in this 3-hour film that is sure to be reckoned with in this year's film award competition. It's easy to call Oppenheimer the best film of the year, but more important is the proof that the only one who can beat Christopher Nolan is himself.
2 out of 8 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?2/10
Rating is fake
boguslawidasiak28 August 2023
Hate to says that but the movie is BORING!!

Oppenheimer attempts to tell an important real-life story, but it falls short in its execution. The film's presentation is a letdown, with a storytelling approach that fails to engage the audience effectively. Sadly, the movie's potential is overshadowed by its inability to captivate viewers. The disappointment grew to the extent that I had to leave an hour before the movie's conclusion. While the subject matter is undoubtedly significant, the film's execution left much to be desired.

My advice do not pay for 3h of boring movie soon it will be available on Amazon for fraction of the price.
2 out of 4 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?6/10
Effects of global impact of Manhattan Project not capitalized on
gusgifford15 August 2023
Nolan's signature visual style was overshadowed by the excessive use of confusing time jumps that seemed more like a gimmick than a well-thought-out storytelling tool. The attempt to blend historical events I with a fictional narrative felt forced and disorienting, leaving me detached from the supposed emotional impact of the story.

Many of the characters lacked depth and development, creating a sense of little care about their fates.

The cinematic effort was certainly there, as you'd expect from a movie with this type of budget.

In the end, "Oppenheimer" left me frustrated and perplexed, with a lingering feeling of wasted potential. Christopher Nolan has proven himself capable of creating masterpieces, but this film is an unfortunate stain on his track record. Save yourself the disappointment and skip this one.
4 out of 6 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?4/10
Definitely overrated!
Arturix22 August 2023
In general - a film with pointlessly stretched and inexpressive dialogues. It could definitely be twice as short, and thus possibly more enjoyable. The acting is really good, but those few gems just couldn't hold the attention throughout the movie and make it enjoyable in general. Watching the movie until the end, after the culmination, was excruciating, and the denouement was too pointless and too predictable. Such a long film should basically have a more complex interpretation of the story and a multi-faceted storyline with at least some unexpected twists, because the one that was played did not evoke any emotions.
15 out of 20 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?1/10
If you liked this movie you are a certified NPC.
maranzullo23 August 2023
Hey bro, let me tell you something. Even if the topic is historical, science related, political... you don't have to force yourself to like it. I know that you feel like forced to enjoy the movie so that you think you're smart. This is so overhyped that the lady next to me started applauding once the movie ended, despite i saw that she was sleeping like she never did in her life. I couldn't find a moment when Cilyan Murphy had a natural expression on his face.. a total mess. I'm writing this because i felt like an npc, that has to find a reason to like this movie... and guess what? I didnt' find it :c.
13 out of 25 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?10/10
Feel the Weight of The Bomb
mrceolsen29 August 2023
The power of this movie, one of the absolute best in at least two decades, lies in it's amazing ability to make you the viewer experience the weight of the decisions and the gravity of the engineering the people involved made in making their choices. It's certainly a poignant drama about the people involved, and a biopic, and a wonderful delve into the physics, but the movie also engrosses us in the extraordinary revolutions of the time - including topics such as relativity in physics, communism, women's rights/equality, and at moments, even art. Blunt is amazing as is Murphy. Experience this in 70mm. The world changed in ways we still cannot fully understand, and everything else changed with the revolutions in science and thought. The genius of it lies not in its categorization of biography, but in its gripping, first person dramatization making you the viewer experience the emotional complexity of the decisions Oppenheimer and all the others made - and the haunting reminder that these weapons are forever with us all now, looming every second.
0 out of 0 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?4/10
Looks like a badly edited documentary
altugozhan27 August 2023
It's easy to say I love it and feel safe being in the crowd but I won't do it for this Nolan movie.

First of all the actors and actresses played exceptional. The movie is swarmed with great actors of our time and they delivered it beautifully as expected.

Another positive for 'Oppenheimer' is Cinematography. Van Hoytema did an excellent job.

Story? Since Oppenheimer is a historic figure the main story is already written but it has to be adapted into a movie that would make it attractive enough to watch. Making an adaptation for the bigscreen is way harder than writing an original one. There are tons of materials failed in this quest and this one failed up that hill too.

There is not a single subject/antagonist/problem/mystery in the movie that is covered throughly as the main focus except "compartmentalization". It is like watching a documentary badly edited and excessively cut by director.

Also relations of Oppenheimer either romantic or business not delved or written beautifully. They are written shallow and portrayed as distant figures and audience doesn't develop any feelings for them.

And my 2nd concern is tension. Nolan is known for his ability to create great tension for his movies and he showed us his expertise from Dunkirk to Interstellar to Tenet. There is almost zero tension in Oppenheimer. Even the well known Nolan sound effects/ost failed to create tension for me and IMO that's why ppl find this movie boring compared to other Nolan titles.

And these two points stopped me from getting tied to story and I felt disconnected thoughout the movie.

I am not getting into ideological/moral views of the movie as there are some to critize or discuss. But it already failed even before that point.
3 out of 6 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?9/10
Excellent experience
dierregi26 August 2023
Finally a movie worth seeing, in the contemporary, desolate landscape. After the "faux pas" of Tenet, Nolan delivers again a great movie.

Best parts
Murphy as Oppenheimer is just great. A multifaceted character, not the usual stereotypical patronising puppet. It's up to the audience to make up their mind about the man. Freedom is good, when most of contemporary storytelling steers you in one direction or else


The non-linear storytelling keeps the attention going and it's not too difficult to follow. The star-studded cast delivers without anybody steeling the show




Less good


However, the last dialogue between Oppenheimer and Einstein is spot-on and the apt closure of a dramatic and all too realistic movie.
2 out of 6 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?10/10
What an awesome experience
kim-670-43555217 August 2023
I watched the movie in imax 70mm as Nolan recommended. Within a cinema with a certified sound system.

When the movie was over, I just sat there. Had to swallow the movie, the impressions that was made.

What an absolute masterpiece of a movie!!

The scenes, sounds, the way of recording the whole movie, it really made an impression on me.

Not boring at all, lots of history, and scenery that affected your pulse due to its intense sound and image.

I would love to see it multiple times in cinema! It truly was a pleasure.

I hope Nolan gets an award for this movie!!

If you haven't seen the movie, GO!

Make sure the cinema has the right image and sound.
2 out of 3 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?1/10
Genuinely terrible.
chemisch617 August 2023
Abysmal story telling, B tier visual effects and a failure to connect the audience to any of the characters.

How can you have a three hour movie about oppenheimer and feel absolutely nothing for the character? By having a movie that forgo any character development by just cutting to visual effects that served no purpose. It told nothing of substance of his life, trials or tribulations. They attempt to display some kind of turmoil but failed. I'm trying to think of where they went wrong but I cannot begin to tell where they were trying to go to begin with. Spoiler alert... Oppenheimer assisted in the development of the atomic bomb... Boom their you go and I just saved you 3 hour of your life.
3 out of 10 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?7/10
Greatest monster in human history
DLochner28 August 2023
A tremendous film, with a tremendous running time of 3 hours. Excellent dialogues and visually stunning. Above all, the interplay between editing and film music, and first-class sound design that pounded on the viewer, was new and completely overwhelming for me. It's not a movie about the atomic bomb, but about how one man was able to build the greatest monster in human history. The film shows that truth is a matter of interpretation and that genius is not necessarily the same as wisdom. Moral dilemma and political calculation are the focus here. The film manages without any action and builds its tension mainly through the jumping back and forth in the different time levels, as well as the unbelievable sound design. Unfortunately, the end lacks the necessary depth and insight into Oppenheimer's character and his motivations. Unfortunately, the film didn't convince me in the end, but it's still worth seeing.
0 out of 1 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?5/10
Disappointing
mydummybox25 August 2023
I registered out of disappointment after seeing this film and disbelief at so many enthusiastic reviews.

It is not a terrible film, mind me, but definitely below Nolan's (inter)stellar standards.

From the emphatic acting, to the bombastic soundtrack, to the (ab)use of trivial special effects: to me everything seemed over the top, blatant, exaggerated and overloaded, pretentious and decidedly lacking the finesse Nolan has accustomed us to. In that, it reminded me of Spielberg's indigestible The Fabelmans.

Another huge problem is that the characters came across as stereotypical, particularly the members of the committee. The way Oppenheimer's supposed moral dilemma is portrayed is very naive, and the protagonist's facial expressions can only do so much to convey the inner struggle.

Like most of Nolan's films, this one is also very long, which becomes a problem when the story development lacks the compelling inspiration of Interstellar, Inception, and especially The Dark Knight. The film drags on for 3 hours in a very predictable and boring way, so much that some viewers showed signs of relief when the film finally ended. I was among them.

Overall unremarkable, if not a major disappointment.
11 out of 13 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?9/10
Once you get into the film's Rhythm, its an amazing ride!
shutsach28 August 2023
As the story opens you discover that this is not a "begin here and end there" type of Drama. In fact, it seems to be flying all over the place in time and location. It takes the viewer a few rounds of this type of flashback, "flash-forward," "flash-middle" storytelling to get into the rhythm of this ultimately amazing film about the life of Robert Oppenheimer, who was the director the Manhattan Project that created and unleashed the Atomic bomb on the world, and who was later chastised severely for his early flirts with Communism and various social protests.

The film follows the known history of this man, in it's non-linear style, while delving deep into his highs, his lows, and his inner uncertanties and conflicts. The basic story of Oppenheimer is easily available with a few keystrokes on any computer, but this film gives us the emotion of the man and his contemporaries.

The film is well cast, even to using actors who actually resemble their real-like counterparts. Although it concentrates in Oppenheimer , wonderfully played by Cillian Murphy, with all of his neurotic conflict, the full cast must also be applauded. Matt Damon and Robert Downey Jr's well-know public personas are all but lost in their portrayals of General Leslie Groves, The military man in charge of creating "The Bomb," and Senator Lewis Strauss, a high ranked member of the Atomic Energy Commission who was instrumental in Oppenheimer's difficulties after WWII.

Another major nod goes to Emily Blunt, who plays Oppenheimer's loyal wife though a variety of scandals and praise.

In fact I found no poor performances in this epic story.

The settings are either real, as in the meeting with Albert Einstein (Tom Conti) at Princeton, or in the recreations of the top secret "village," Los Alamos created in New Mexico for the scientists and their families who worked on the Manhattan Project. Most impressive was the recreation of the ignition of the First A-Bomb. The reality of the detonation is eerily spot on!

At nearly 3 hours a film like this might become tedious, but "Oppenheimer" is able to kleep the audience involved throughout!

Well worth the price of the ticket.
0 out of 2 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?10/10
AN ULTIMATE MASTERPIECE
brmenon19 August 2023
An Ultimate Mastepiece by the master craftsman himself.

One of the most anticipated movies of 2023 and it didn't disappoint. I would like to say that the person must be fully prepared and switched on if he wants to understand the movie. Exceptional movie and great acting by each and every cast, especially Cillian Murphy and RDjr. One thing which I have noticed about casual movie goers that they were wondering what is happening. You are non attentive and then you are lost.

Oppenheimer is - with no doubt going to be one of the best movies in the history. Amazing cinematography, Exceptional acting and terrifying Soundtracks.

Cillian Murphy gave the performance of his life. Overall the movie 🍿 has everything.
0 out of 4 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?5/10
Great acting, boring movie
inforlonghaul15 August 2023
I know I'm in the significant minority here on this review, but I was honestly not impressed with Oppenheimer. I went in not knowing what to expect from it other than the few snippets of previews I had seen and obviously what I knew from my American history lessons in college.

The casting was great and I have to say that they all did a wonderful job, but to me, this biographical movie was too long for me to find it enjoyable. With a nearly 3-hour run time, it was 99% talking and about .5% of a bomb explosion, which was really the highlight of the movie for me.

I wish movie directors would realize that longer runtimes are not always better. Had this movie been closer to about 2 hours, maybe 2 hours and 15 minutes, it would have been much more enjoyable due to the faster pace of storytelling.

The runtime is really my only complaint about the movie, everything else was great, but unfortunately, the excessive runtime impacted my enjoyment of the movie as a whole.
5 out of 9 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?9/10
If you didn't love the first time, you will the second
japermon15 August 2023
Oppenheimer directed and written by Christopher Nolan is truly one of the best films of the past decade. My first watch I found myself loving every aspect of a Christopher Nolan movie. The image as always is clean and gorgeous, you can feel the IMAX. The storyline is nonlinear and challenges both your attention and comprehension, a very rewarding way for a director to think high of its audience. Finally the score, where before the GOAT Hans Zimmer has more than once amazed us with his magic, Ludwig Göransson returns from previously working on Tennet and gives an absolute masterpiece. Ive been listening to the score since my first watch, and listening to it again on my second made me love it much more. And that is what happens with the rest of the movie. Although I loved every technical aspect on my fisrt watch, I did found myself agreeing with my friends that the movie could've been made shorter and even a little lighter. Although I argued that its length and constant bombardment of information was no reason whatsoever for a miss in the movie, I didn't argued enough on its behalf for elevating it and become much more than a historical movie. At the end, my first watch was an amazong movie with room for improvement, maybe for an easier watch. How I wish I never said that. It is only on my second watch when truly every detail is rich and powerful and meaningful. Where first I found empty space or simply overdoing of a scene, now I found a whole new spectrum of the movie. If you felt similar on your first watch, or you thought you would've love it more, do yourself a favor and give it a second watch. Christopher Nolan crafted this movie with every expertise he's gathered throughout his entire carrier. You can see his experience on Dunkirk, Inception, The Prestige, Insomnia, and pretty much his entire filmography put together on his yet most ambitious film. It feels he's been preparing for this movie his whole life. The acting is phenomenal, specially by Murphy and Downey, I can see them both wining the oscar easily so far this year. The thing most people will have a problem with and it was my little nitpick on my first watch will be the script. Being too long and too rich with information may fall like a very overwhelming experience and I can truly understand that. I above all argue that this is not a movie for anyone, you must commit to it, truly, but if you do it rewards with a very immersive and terrifying experience. And that END. I don't care if you like movies or not, if this was for you or not, but if you didn't marveled a the end with the amazing score concluding the destruction of the world, I don't trust you. In overall, I truly think Christopher Nolan made his masterpiece, I think he out did himself on this one and stepped out from his comfort zone (if you could say that) making this historical and yet inmersive study of character experience. A film for the ages, only time will tell if it truly is Nolan's best, now I could argue that is his second or third, but that may be the hype, or may not.
0 out of 1 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?10/10
Hdjs
alimahmedw27 August 2023
Come: Nebivolol is an exceptionally selective cardiothoracic and extremely long-acting beta-blocker with vasodilator properties, which acts in part across the endothelial L-arginine/nitric pathway. And the diagnosis of renal failure effective pressure in surgery once a day. Nebivolol has previously been successful in improving left ventricular function in patients with heart failure. METHODS AND RESULTS: This incident reports a double recovery trial comparing, in patients with heart failure, nebivolol once direct one day or 5.0 or 2.5 mg (initiated at 2.5 mg each) with placebo on a background of digitalis plus a diuretic. And there was no improvement in overall heart function or symptoms of heart disease, especially the inability to exercise, with nebivolol, and there was a comparison with placebo. One patient drop nebivolol 2.5 mg.
0 out of 0 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?6/10
A historical drama without any accurate history!
elprgianaki25 August 2023
Nolan's movies are about science and explanations and art. This was a bad biographic movie about a controversial person.

It bothered me that it tried to control your knowledge of history by not telling you anything about the McCarthy period, the reason why Nazi Germany lost the war and why America choose Japan as a target.

Nolan decided to shoot a historical drama without mention any accurate historical evidence. So sad.

I liked the acting skills of the whole cast and, of course, the direction.

Generally, it was a nice movie, but it tried so hard to convince the audience about things that never even happened in order to prove that the Americans are always right.

Nice acting, sound, cast and direction.
5 out of 6 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?10/10
A masterpiece
vtxdvb20 August 2023
I'm just gonna put it like this, One of the few Favorite movies of 2023. Combining the history of world war 2 and science is just perfect really. The best thing about the movie is Cillian Murphy his acting is just so good to be true. I don't know why people are hating on this movie and yeah everybody have their own opinions but when it comes to this movie it's not supposed to be hated on, I think people are hating on it either because they don't like history and science or because it was 3 hours, even tho its 3 hours it's worth every minute just because there is no action in the movie it doesn't mean it's bad, if you like action movies why even bother watching a movie about history and hate on it?
2 out of 9 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?7/10
Should have been better
margip-2133527 August 2023
Another movie by Nolan,with exceptional actors and impressive CGI (aka huge budget) but nothing special as far as the scenario and cinematography are concerned. Cliché-depicted the life of a scientist, the female role etc. I believe that with such great performances and interesting historical events, the movie should have been way more thrilling. Another thing is, that when you create a movie about the life of a physicist, it is essential that you comprehend at least the basic knowledge required and not just throw random stuff in the script. Historically speaking, the movie was more complete and the flashbacks, although used too many times, served well.
1 out of 1 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?1/10
Massive disappointment
tjcrofts22 August 2023
I did not enjoy this movie. The trailer led us all to believe it would be about the development of the atomic bomb. Instead it was a very convoluted and hard to follow story about the witch-hunt that followed involving Oppenheimer. Tedious in the extreme and way too long. What I disliked most of all was the nerve jangly, incessantly loud and constant soundtrack noise. I know Nolan likes to do this but it was out of control in this movie. It was like leaving your teenage boy to play death metal at full bore whilst you are try to meditate! I must have looked at my watch 50 times as to when it would be over. I very much appreciated Nolan's storytelling talents, and the excellent acting, but seriously, edit this movie please. I suggest a test audience cut instead of the directors cut.
14 out of 27 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?7/10
Oppenheimer bombed a bit
mitch-anthony22 August 2023
All the visual excitement, which is why I wanted to see Oppenheimer on the cinema big screen, was pretty much shown in the trailer. The film was far too talky. The usual polished performances, particularly from Robert Downey Junior and Cillian Murphy, but I think the story was so politically focused and not enough emphasis was given to showing the impact and fallout of the Hiroshima & Nagasaki bombings. Surprised no actual footage or reconstructions were used. Also a Japanese perspective would have added another dimension. In my opinion it ranks below Nolan's great direction, namely Interstellar, The Dark Knight and Memento. 7/10.
3 out of 4 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?7/10
What is the message
xxxxxdarkmoon23 August 2023
This movie missed the opportunity to create something great. I don't understand that in a 3-hours long movie, there wasn't space left for the content of the 2 real war bombs that killed innocent people in Nagasaki and Hiroshima. 200000+

Showing the evil grin on the devil's face would have been a message for audiences all over the world that would have an impact for the rest of their life. But what is the message instead: Oppenheimer wasn't responsible for that decision - he just built the bomb and afterwards he had regrets. That is what will be left in people's memories. The plot of that 3-hour movie is mostly about Lewis Strauss and the relationship between him and Oppenheimer - an ego war by Lewis Strauss.

Another missed chance: The visuals of the nuclear explosion were without CGI. But think about it: filming a fire explosion in order to make it look like a nuclear explosion - as realistic as possible - is a bad idea. Isn't it? So why no CGI? There is no better reason for using CGI, than avoiding a real nuclear bomb.

All in all, it is not a bad movie, the actors did a great job. But it is not Nolan's best movie or THE best movie as some people hyped it.
3 out of 4 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?9/10
Absolutely Brilliant !!
sharad_bishnoi18 August 2023
Finally watched the movie today, was hoping I don't miss this one amidst my other travel compulsions.

Only Christopher Nolan could have achieved this !! Loved the star cast and the detailing !!

Cillian Murphy, Matt Damon & Robert Downey Junior were just brilliant & so convincing in their roles.

Jason Clark pulled this one so convincingly, all the while sitting on that chair.

Music by Ludwig Gorranson provides the needed magic to a brilliant cinematography.

This movie must be watched on a theatre to truly appreciate the work !

This is a masterpiece !!!!! Work of a genius !!! Too early to announce the Oscar winners eh ?
1 out of 4 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?8/10
Nice to see some science history in public
jenseeli21 August 2023
While I am not an expert on the quality of the film, I can say that I loved seeing this important story told for public consumption. People all around me are talking about the science of the atomic bomb, quantum physics, and radioactive isotopes in ways they never did before. The scientists are becoming better known now than perhaps ever before. I know that the art of film-making does not always keep the story perfectly accurate, nevertheless this film seems to be doing a great job getting people interested in learning more about the development of the science that resulted in the atomic bomb as well as many other innovations that came after the war. That would be a very good thing.
0 out of 6 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?2/10
Too much for me
stevenmckinstry27 August 2023
OK, let's start by saying I'm full of admiration for film makers and the work involved in putting together something like this. But it was just too long, too convoluted and too lacking in empathy for me.

To start with, why is there a constant soundtrack of electronic lift music? And why is it necessary to add explosion sound effects every time someone mentions "bomb" or "atomic"? And stars every time "universe" or "gravity" are mentioned? In combination with the usual muffled speech, I ended up straining to catch the dialogue.

Secondly, so many names are mentioned, it becomes near impossible to follow the last hour or so of the movie, during the hearing/tribunal, shot alternately in b&w and colour. I couldn't remember which came first historically, and gave up trying to keep track.

I didn't empathise at all with Oppenheimer. In fact, he seems to have been as bit of a pain. Emily Blunt did her best as his wife, bless her. The actors trying to appear like physicists looked a bit uncomfortable.

I would suggest watching this movie until the bomb test, then going for an ice cream and returning for the last 10 minutes. You won't have missed anything!
0 out of 3 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?9/10
Cinematic Masterpiece is "Oppenheimer"
johnharapa19 August 2023
Breathtaking masterpiece that skillfully combines the elements of action, audio, acting, direction, and scene design into an unforgettable cinematic experience. Directed by the visionary filmmaker, Christopher Nolan, the movie takes audiences on an electrifying journey that weaves together heart-pounding action sequences, immersive audio design, exceptional performances, stunning visuals, and meticulous direction. This review delves into the movie's prowess in each of these crucial areas, showcasing how it harmoniously creates a symphony of emotions and adrenaline.

"Oppenheimer" excels in its action sequences, delivering a pulse-pounding experience that keeps viewers on the edge of their seats from start to finish. The Atom bomb explosion was captured too good and viewed super in the film.

The audio design of "Oppenheimer" deserves special accolades for its immersive and evocative quality. The symphonic score, composed by Ludwig Göransson, elevates the movie to a whole new level. It blends perfectly with the on-screen action, accentuating emotional beats and intensifying the adrenaline-pumping moments. Additionally, the sound effects are expertly crafted, creating a dynamic soundscape that draws the audience deeper into the film's world. The combination of the powerful score and well-balanced sound effects makes the audio aspect of the movie a standout.

"Oppenheimer" are nothing short of exceptional. Led by a talented ensemble cast, each actor brings depth and authenticity to their characters. Cillian Murphy shines in the lead role, delivering a captivating portrayal of a conflicted hero torn between duty and personal struggles. The supporting cast, including Robert Downey Jr. And Emily Blunt and Matt Damon and others, deliver standout performances that contribute to the emotional resonance of the narrative. The chemistry among the cast members is palpable, adding further layers to the film's storytelling.

The movie's scene design is a visual treat that transports the audience to diverse and imaginative worlds. From sprawling urban landscapes to otherworldly realms, each setting is meticulously crafted to enhance the storytelling. The attention to detail in both practical and digital sets is awe-inspiring, creating a rich tapestry of visual splendor. The scene transitions are seamless and contribute to the overall flow of the film, making it an immersive and cohesive cinematic experience.

Christopher Nolan masterful direction, "Oppenheimer" achieves a harmonious blend of action and emotion. The director's vision is evident in every frame, showcasing a keen eye for detail and storytelling finesse. The film's pacing is skillfully managed, allowing both the action-packed moments and the character-driven scenes to breathe.

Christopher Nolan demonstrates a strong ability to elicit powerful performances from the cast and brings together all the technical elements to create a cohesive and emotionally resonant cinematic journey.

THE END (phew)
0 out of 3 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?9/10
Explosive and compelling
olliechowes24 August 2023
After walking into the cinema and sitting down, you start to wonder "How on earth is this film going to be 3 hours long? Surely he builds the bomb, they test it, and then the film ends?". However, as the minutes tick by and the plot develops, you become fully engrossed in Oppenheimer's quest for destructive discovery.

The casting choices are beyond perfect, Cillian Murphy is impeccable in the titular role, and has clearly practised making purely petrified faces in order to do so. Matt Damon is flawless as ever, Emily Blunt is particularly impressive as Kitty Oppenheimer, and Robert Downey Jr. Gives perhaps the best performance of his career. Smaller roles and various cameos also occur throughout the film, such as Florence Pugh, Casey Affleck, Kenneth Branagh and Rami Malek.

Another remarkable feature of this film is the nonlinear narrative. Jumping between Robert's time as a student, as a professor, at Los Alamos, and at a vital security hearing. And, through all of this, managing to show several smaller narratives, such as his relationship with Jean Tatlock, or his complications with communism.

If Oppenheimer leaves one lasting impact on cinema, it's that Christopher Nolan can turn anything into a brilliantly engaging and thrilling cinematic experience.
1 out of 5 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?2/10
Just tell the story, for God's sake
bruce611018 August 2023
Oppenheimer was craptastic. It was a mess. 2 out of 10 stars. People who give it a 10 are sheep. Maybe they just like the visuals. Those were pretty good. But they don't save the movie.

Nolan took an important subject and a great cast, and as usual he chopped the story up into a loud, disjointed, overwrought mish-mash of mush.

Just tell the freaking story, Nolan.

About 30% of the scenes should have been cut. About half the dialogue was unintelligible, which might actually be a good thing, because the other half was often stilted and repetitive.

Also, why are there so many loud special effects while dialogue is taking place? And why all the non-chronological jumping around? It doesn't serve the story one bit. The story in its linear form is plenty. Chopping it up needlessly just makes you look pretentious.
3 out of 5 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?8/10
A film in which nothing much happens: rivetingly!
gogartyster22 August 2023
First off for the real acting fans, the performances in this are outstanding with, of course, Cillian Murphy at the top of the pile. Ok he actually looks like Oppenheimer with the hollowed-out cheeks and piercing blue eyes, but this guy can act and he obviously worked damned hard at getting this so right. However, we are blitzed with star performances throughout and Christopher Nolan has an uncanny ability to allow something of the individual actor's personality to inhabit the character they play and that's genius.

Plot? History.

Message? Don't blink or you'll miss it: whatever "it" is!

Overall? If I knew what was missing I'd know why I couldn't give it a higher score.
0 out of 4 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?9/10
Super interesting movie, but also interesting pacing...
kirq3321 August 2023
I personally think the movie was amazing. It had incredibly beautiful visuals and I thought the different point of views were very well executed (the change between black and white and colour really helped understand through which point of view we saw the scene). It's a high quality movie and Christopher Nolan did not disappoint. I'm not entirely sure about historical and scientific accuracy but of what knowledge I have (Swiss student, year 11), I think I can say it was pretty accurate. All I can say is that it did lead to a very interesting discussion about communism on the drive back home. Overall I enjoyed the movie very much and it's probably one of my top movies.

However, the pacing of the movie was just really weird and sometimes confusing. The first half hour of the movie was really jumpy and I kind of had a hard time following the timeline. It got better after but it was still kind of hard following the timeline sometimes because I guess there wasn't always a clear connection between the past and 'present' scenes. I get what Nolan was trying to do by jumping back and forth between the security hearing, Strauss' cabinet nomination and the process of building the atomic bomb and everything around it, it just took some time until I got when on the timeline everything happened. It didn't really help that some moments where showed multiple times but from different point of views, e.g. The lake scene with Einstein. Still, I wouldn't change that they did that because I think that it was a genius idea and the movie would've been boring otherwise. I would recommend the movie to everyone who likes movies with a historical setting.
1 out of 7 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?5/10
OK, but not a Classic
jfdvet15 August 2023
Plusses

The production values are excellent.

Generally depicts the period accurately.

Good special effects, especially the recreation of the Trinity shot.

Shows that like everyone else, scientists have sex lives.

Occasionally asks some profound questions.

Minuses

Quickly jumps from scene to scene.

Excessive use of flashbacks.

Fair amount of overacting, especially by Robert Downey jr,,

The music and sound effects often drown out the dialog.

At times tends to ramble on and on with no end in sight.

Distracting surrealistic sequences.

My general conclusion- OK, but not a classic.

By comparison, " Fat Man and Little Boy" is overall a better film on the subject.

It pretty much mirrors my view of the recent remake of "All Quiet on the Western Front".

Generally good but can't compare to the original.
9 out of 13 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?5/10
Disappointing, but not for a lack of effort.
ataylor-9935819 August 2023
This was a tough one to get through for me. The pacing and score of the film were unrelenting, and scenes were cut together with the same mentality of one who thinks music would sound better if we played the notes as fast as possible. Scenes of over dramatic intensity felt used to divert the viewer from something lacking in the film. To me certain scenes were so saturated with drama I wanted to pantomime the puking gesture.

My suspension of disbelief dropped every time I saw Albert Einstein. All of the Hollywood-ized science talk was also particularly cringeworthy. I understand most audience members probably wouldn't get hung up on this as much, but for scientists I think this is a difficult hurdle to leap over.

This felt like a Frankenstein of a movie for me, seeing Nolan's excellent style plastered onto a nonfictional story seemed like something an AI might create. Ultimately it felt jarring and lacked the conviction it was striving so desperately to portray. I'm glad so many people enjoyed it, but this was a total flop for me.
3 out of 5 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?5/10
A LONG movie to sit through to be disappointed
RickScript21 August 2023
3 hours long and it felt EVERY bit that long. First, I want to say that the sound design and sound editing was atrocious, much of the dialogue was lost through low volume by actors and the musical score overpowering it. Second, the first 30 minutes was difficult to follow as the timeline kept bouncing around (to be fair, I missed the very opening so maybe there was something there that may have helped explain it). The ensemble cast was so large that keeping all the names straight was also hard. I realize this movie was more about Oppenheimer but previous movies on the subject were better (IMO).
7 out of 10 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?7/10
Should have been even longer
pippolomeo25 August 2023
I liked the movie, but i felt like it should have been even longer, since the pace is too fast for a dialogue-driven movie.

What I have found harassing is the everlasting soundtrack overdubbing the dialogues: useless music is almost anytime playing unger the dialogues and, if sometimes it serves as a tension builder, most of the times is distracting or muffles the voices for no reasons.

There are many things which are made-up (Einstein role, primarily) but they not so annoying, after all.

Honestly I think that the movie is currently quite overrated (8.6: I would say 7.5). It is a good movie but I don't see it as a masterpiece: it tells a story so deep and important for humankind that it would have been really difficult to make an uninteresting movie.
2 out of 5 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?9/10
A masterful director and a film of great intelligence
wheatley-2023023 August 2023
This film addresses a critical moment in human history with great intelligence and insight. We still don't know whether nuclear weapons will mean the end of war or the end of mankind. Perhaps those of us on the planet today never will.

The arguments for and against the development of the bomb at a time of national crisis are on screen for us to think about. As are the arguments for it's use against Japan after Germany had surrendered. If you want to be informed on these matters, or to think about them, then this film will be rewarding.

Christopher Nolan does not make it easy for you. Multiple story arcs overlap. There is much scientific and political debate rather than action. After the successful explosion, which might have been the climax of the film, there remains one third of the running time to take your through Oppenheimer's subsequent trials and tribulations. You need your wits about you to stay with it.

It requires a masterful director you lead you through all this without ever losing your interest. And to leave you at the end knowing you have seen something of rare quality. Christopher Nolan is certainly up to the task.
0 out of 4 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?10/10
AWESOME !!!
evander-9163925 August 2023
This movie is awesome!

It may be considered simply the best Historical movie by Christopher Nolan.

Stellar cast with Murphy , Downey Jr.

Damon and Blunt ( just to name a few) .

The 3 hours literally flew !

Expect a true intense portrait about Oppenheimer.

Do not judge this movie until you have watched it.

In my honest opinion this movie should be nominated for an academy award...not only.for the stunning perfermance by Murphy, not.only for the special effects .

This movie deserves more !

This is not like the previous Nolan's movies. For its intensity it goes beyond.

A true powerful, majestic masterpiece!

Gotta watch this movie !
2 out of 9 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?1/10
Another Nolan Debacle - Don't Waste Your Time
Gordon22817 August 2023
After Tenet I swore I would never watch another Nolan film. But I went to see this because of all the hype. Big mistake. Same old crappy storytelling, audio issues, and confusing time jumping from Mr. Nolan.

You constantly feel as if you are joining scenes in the middle. Mr. Nolan's scenes do noy have a beginning or end. Just a middle. You just join the scene in progress then cut to another scene in already progress. It is frustrating and tiresome and does not make for an enjoyable movie experience.

This is basically an Oppenheimer biography. Not a movie about the development of the bomb which is what I was expecting and hoping for.

Very little of the movie was spent on the actual development of the bomb. The entire 2nd half of the movie was about whether he could retain his security clearance. Really? Wow! That little meeting room looks great in IMAX Chris!

The Trinity test bomb explosion was very disappointing also. Then did not show ANYTHING on the Hiroshima or Nagasaki bomb. We just get to hear Truman's radio address (Oppenheimer's POV). Also NOTHING on the aftermath and destruction the bomb caused. And no other footage of test bombs in the Pacific.

There have been many documentaries made on the subject which are way better than this movie.
5 out of 12 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?7/10
Pachydermic? Certainly, it's not a step backwards in Nolan's filmography
charley_varrick16 August 2023
For the Christopher who cleared the author's blockbuster, to sublimate the superheroes with super torments, the depiction of his usual topoi and trademarks continues.

Proverbial dissertations on the arbitrariness of affections, in the course of Space Odysseys, through "dominant strategy", in Search of Lost Time in which to find a Yin & yang (inner and outer) that takes shape culminating in a relatively sinister, threatening and apocalyptic vision. Relatively. Because this time the dark side is only partially threatening, compared to the one depicted in Strangelove. In other words, the message creeps in that, for better or for worse, a future in Gotham City always awaits us around the corner.

Of a blockbuster, it has only the mainstream cast. And a workhorse montage of a major season. Elements that can already compete for nominations for the Academy Awards.

Julius Robert Oppenheimer is a Vitruvian man. A little different from the one described by Malcolm Gladwell in the non-fiction Outliers. Just look at his interactions, owing the Rule of the Game to an Altman-esque plot. At the same time Matt Damon, Downey jr. & co. Put on a mask, without turning into a "tench". We suspect and regret that Michael Caine would have been a perfect Einstein.

The plot is more usual than usual. Let me be clear, we have plenty of flashbacks and parallel montages. Also with surreal, futurist and hyper-realistic touches. With a total mastery of the set and the themes, already exhibited in Dunkirk, which fears no rivals in Aronofsky, Iñárritu or even in Paul Thomas Anderson.

Like Interstellar, in some sequences, the most obvious visual reference is the Cosmos docuseries (in particular the one with Neil DeGrasse Tyson). To go back to the masters of other times, there is more and more entrepreneurial spirit in the reconstruction of a set in the west(ern) on which Hollywood was born, following the tradition of John Ford and his pupils (or followers).

Instead, for the masses, despite the added value of a structured viewing for IMAX screens, it can come as a massive and exhausting work. That is, what happened and happens to those who see a film by David Lean like Lawrence of Arabia. In fact, Cillian Murphy, the former Peaky Blinder, already busily lunatic and spirited in a (professional) role similar to Danny Boyle in Sunshine, is increasingly Peter O' Toole's heir.

As Variety noted, the segment of the first nuclear test may be the center of gravity on which all the work revolves. And it can become a milestone of the seventh art. We live the stroke of the Atomic Age with our own eyes, just as we observed on our skin the symptoms of schizophrenia in A Beautiful Mind. Or the breaking of the sound barrier in the documentary Senna.

While a good storyteller like Ron Howard concocts chronicles for episodes with a known epilogue, moreover representing obstacles to their crowning, here we have an Author like Nolan who, among those of his generation, now competes only with Tarantino in terms of style. Like a famous sequence from Reservoir Dogs, we even feel a hidden anguish for that situation with a well-known and perhaps outdated outcome. Around this scene, throughout the rest of the film, revolves a story of the trial, which in its way follows the archetype of Caine Mutiny with Bogart, able to satisfy the needs of the plot, rather than the expectations.

Won't it be a masterpiece? Of course, it's not a step backwards in the director's filmography.
1 out of 1 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?8/10
A Masterpiece Nearly Ruined By The Sound
rwheeler-6124718 August 2023
Cillian Murphy is incredible. Robert Downey Jr is as well. The supporting cast is strong. The story is interesting and enlightening. It's a lesson in physics and politics. I can't heap enough accolades on the acting, directing, set design, cinematography, score and production - everything but the sound mixing and editing. It's abysmal. Without this problem the movie is a 10.

The score at times overwhelms the dialog. Christopher Nolan's stubborn refusal to ensure that dialog is intelligible is maddening. And his use of the score in Oppenheimer was bizarre at times. There are some scenes in which it is used for a soaring dramatic effect - overwhelming the dialog - that would have benefited from pin drop quiet, actually increasing the tension the scene was meant to convey.

Bottom line - see it. Come Oscar season it will be a (or the) front runner. It will win a lot of awards. But if it wins anything for sound, except the score itself, I will be completely surprised.
0 out of 2 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?10/10
Fabulous but not for everyone
lorraineesimpson27 August 2023
I am definitely a Christopher Nolan fan and loved it but if you like action this isn't the film for you. This is quite a cerebral film, you need to pay attention to what's being said. There's a lot of talking, a lot of jumping back and forth, you need your brain switched on. It reminds me a lot of JFK actually.

Cillian Murphy is simply sensational in this role. Completely believable and there is surely an Oscar heading his way for this. Robert Downey Jr is also very good as is Matt Damon, Florence Pugh and Emily Watson.

As ever Nolan makes great use of the soundtrack to build that sense of tension and urgency, and silence is also used very effectively.

This feels more like a documentary in parts, it's challenging more than entertaining and at 3 hours it's long although I felt the time passed quickly. It's yet another Nolan film which you can't help but admire but I appreciate it's not for everyone.
5 out of 6 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?8/10
Fatman Scoop
southdavid19 August 2023
With the exception of "Dunkirk" that (not for any deliberate reason) I've not seen at all yet, I've seen every one of Christopher Nolan's films at the cinema since "Memento" at the start of the century. Whilst I appreciated aspects of "Tenet" it's fair to say that I didn't love it like I have some of the others and, whilst I again feel like I'm being kept at arm's length, I liked "Oppenheimer" more.

At two points in history, the cabinet approval of Lewis Strauss (Robert Downey Jnr) and the security clearance renewal of Oppenheimer (Cillian Murphy) himself, the life, achievements and associations of the father of the atomic bomb are assessed. Vague, but repeated, links to the communist movement, as well as his Jewish heritage, are black marks against Oppenheimer, but as the academic who brought theoretical physics to the US, when the second World War leads the US to entering a nuclear arms race, he's the first choice to establish and run the Los Alamos laboratory that successfully created the bomb. After the usage of the cataclysmic weapon on Japan though, he is haunted by the guilt and comes to try and restrict further proliferation.

My concern ahead of seeing "Oppenheimer" was that like many biopics, it might struggle to turn an extraordinary life into a compelling story. Nolan gets around this by splitting the film and almost putting as much time and focus on Strauss as on Oppenheimer. This gets around the fact that the biggest aspect of Oppenheimer's story, the successful Trinity experiment, is around the middle of the film but we can still have a dramatic denouement from the Strauss' storyline. This is all further enhanced by time jumps in the movies being achieved by switching from black and white to colour. Performances are brilliant from what is an all-star cast - with even the smallest of roles being played by a named or recognisable actor - some of which were, to me anyway, kept as surprising cameos.

It's a little step back towards straightforward storytelling, after "Tenet" but even with that Nolan remains probably cinema's most exciting directors and, along with Tarantino, one of the few who's name alone gets cinemagoers through the door. Already looking forward to the next one.
0 out of 1 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?5/10
Irrelevant
dirk-818-9585222 August 2023
Boring story about the questionable persecution of supposed communists in the McCarthy era.

The history of the development of the atomic bomb is treated only marginally. The military Manhattan project with its enormous human, industrial and financial expenditure is mentioned but not presented or questioned. There is no processing of moral questions, historical backgrounds, the actions of individuals or scientific backgrounds.

The film as a whole is irrelevant. If you are interested in the topic, you should read a book or simply read a few Wikipedia artists. If you are more into visuals, the graphic novel THE BOMB The Weapon That Changed the World is recommended.
7 out of 14 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?6/10
Basically a 3 hr trailer
frunzedestejar16 August 2023
The pace of the movie is too alert for my taste. Scenes and frames and events changing every 3-5 seconds, the audio goes from 0 to 100 I had to cover my ears. The editing simply made me sick as if I was in a speeding car on a windy road hitting lots of bumps. The acting is 10/10 and the quality is impecable. I kinda wished the movie had shown some insights into the Japanese side as well, like maybe the story of a simple family living in Hiroshima, for example, to get some balance and more nuanced cultural insights and sides to the same story. It felt so unilateral even with Oppenheimer's hallucinating guilt. The main antagonist in this story is some guy playing political tricks I didn't care about which just made the story difficult to understand or get emotionally invested into at times.
3 out of 5 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?7/10
Very good but WAY too loud
pd-1949017 August 2023
I don't understand Nolan's fascination with jacking up the volume of his films to a level that sometimes drowns out the dialogue. It's also not necessary to constantly play background music. I'm not a filmmaker but it's ok to let the dialogue speak for itself. At least with this one I could still hear the dialogue, unlike Insterstellar where much of the film's exposition was drowned out by banging music. I don't recall Nolan's earlier films being this way but I think it may have started around The Dark Knight Rises and definitely hit a crescendo with Interstellar. Anyway, clanging music aside, the film is very good. The acting is superb and the story, minus a couple frankly unnecessary sex scenes, is phenomenal. My favorite scene was the bomb test and the tension of expecting the loud bang that waits for a bit before it actually happens. There's an example where audio was used correctly. It was actually QUIET for what seemed like an eternity and then the loud bang kicked in at just the right time. I wish the music had been handled the same way for the rest of the movie. I also didn't have any problem with the length and while it was preachy at times, the story was still effective and I could see why Nolan has said it's a horror film. Fix the audio and this is a 10.
5 out of 8 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?A Masterpiece of Cinematic Storytelling
RuiBilhardas22 August 2023
When discussing films that leave a lasting impression, Oppenheimer is unquestionably one of those worthy of mention. From its breathtaking cinematography to its detailed character studies, this movie is truly a remarkable achievement.

There's an intricacy in the portrayal of J. Robert Oppenheimer, the 'father of the atomic bomb,' that creates a multidimensional and thought-provoking character. The film meticulously examines the moral and ethical dilemmas he faced during the development of one of the world's most destructive weapons, adding depth to the narrative and allowing audiences to experience the intense human drama.

One of the highlights of this film is the acting performances. The characters are brought to life with an intensity and dedication that is both stunning and captivating. The portrayal of Oppenheimer himself is especially commendable, embodying the internal struggle of a man burdened with unimaginable responsibility.

As for the technical aspects, Oppenheimer is a marvel. The cinematography is stunning, with every frame meticulously crafted, while the score adds another layer of immersion to this powerful historical drama. The film perfectly blends realism and artistic representation to create a visually arresting and emotionally charged experience.

While I have given Oppenheimer a 9 out of 10, I regret not seeing it in IMAX. The vast and detailed landscapes, the intricate design of the laboratories, the scale of the atomic bomb tests - all these elements would undoubtedly gain an additional level of awe-inspiring grandeur in the IMAX format. The IMAX experience, with its unrivaled picture quality and immersive sound, would truly elevate the already impressive cinematic spectacle that Oppenheimer offers.

In conclusion, Oppenheimer is a film that marries historical accuracy with compelling storytelling and extraordinary performances. It's a profound exploration of one man's journey and the immense impact of his creation on the world. The depth of the narrative, the masterful character development, and the visually striking cinematography make this film a must-watch. And if you have the chance, don't miss the opportunity to view it in IMAX for the fullest experience.
0 out of 3 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink<>?10/10
Oscar's loading...
noelgaubmann15 August 2023
I love this movie so much. This is Christopher Nolan's chance to finally show off at the Oscar's, Oppenheimer is definitely in the Top 2 of his filmography, but Nolan isn't the only one who is a candidat for the Oscar's. Cillian Murphy, Robert Downey Jr and even Emily Blunt are all contenders at the next years Oscar's. The score.... probably there's soooo much recency bias in me, but I consider Oppenheimer to have the greatest score ever composed. Yeah, above Interstellar, Inception and everything else. This is a clear 10 out of 10 for me. Alone the fact how much money this movie makes at the box office as an R rated biopic, is incredible.
2 out of 11 found this helpful. Was this review helpful? Sign in to vote.
Permalink